Title: SpecLoR: Spectral Lookahead Rectification for Motion-Coherent Text-to-Video Generation

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.11969v1

Published Time: Thu, 11 Jun 2026 01:08:38 GMT

Number of Pages: 18

Markdown Content:
# SpecLoR: Spectral Lookahead Rectification for Motion-Coherent Text-to-Video Generation 

Xu Zhang 1, Yu Lu 1, Ruijie Quan 1, Zhaozheng Chen 2, Bohan Wang 2, Yi Yang 1∗ 

> 1

ReLER, College of Artificial Intelligence, Zhejiang University 2 Huawei Central Research Institute 

Project Page: https://xuzhang2.github.io/SpecLoR/ 

## Abstract 

Flow Matching has enabled robust text-to-video generation via latent ODE sam-pling. However, velocity approximation and numerical discretization errors in-evitably accumulate, causing sampling trajectories to drift. Consequently, generated videos often suffer from severe spatiotemporal inconsistencies. Nevertheless, di-rectly correcting these drifted, noisy latents is challenging: (i) timestep-dependent noise obscures reliable structural cues; (ii) spatial interventions risk disrupting intri-cate local geometry while incurring heavy computational costs. To address this, we propose Spectral Lookahead Rectification ( SpecLoR ), a plug-and-play inference method that bypasses noise via lookahead prediction, and circumvents spatiotempo-ral entanglement by shifting corrections to the frequency domain, where universal statistical priors of natural videos are readily available. First, during early sampling stages, SpecLoR looks ahead to estimate the clean latent zt, 0 and computes its 3D spatiotemporal spectrum. Next, SpecLoR rectifies the amplitude spectrum to match the prior, leaving the phase intact. Finally, the corrected state is re-noised to resume ODE integration. Experiments on Wan2.2 demonstrate that SpecLoR sig-nificantly reduces physical artifacts and enhances motion coherence across multiple benchmarks with minimal computational overhead (4 additional NFEs). 

## 1 Introduction 

Text-to-video (T2V) generation [ 1 –8 ] has recently achieved remarkable milestones, largely driven by the transition toward the Flow Matching (FM) paradigm [ 9 , 10 ]. Despite great progress, current T2V models still suffer from spatiotemporal inconsistencies, e.g., duplicated limbs, floating objects, or physically implausible contacts, especially under complex motion and interaction dynamics. A primary cause of these inconsistencies lies in the sampling drift during inference [ 11 – 13 ]. In FM models, video generation proceeds by integrating a learned vector field using a numerical ODE solver. Because this estimated field cannot perfectly match the true continuous transport field, velocity approximation and numerical discretization errors inevitably accumulate across integration steps [ 12 ]. Consequently, the sampling trajectory gradually deviates from high-density regions of the data distribution, forcing intermediate latent states off the ideal generative path, as illustrated in Fig.1a. Existing inference-time methods attempt to mitigate this drift through trajectory exploration or perturbation. Search-based approaches [ 14 – 16 ] rely on rejection sampling or test-time selection to explore optimal sampling paths. However, these methods are often computationally prohibitive for high-dimensional video data. Noise initialization techniques [ 11 , 17 ] tackle this issue at the trajectory’s starting point, but leave the overall ODE drift fundamentally unresolved. Meanwhile, perturbation-based methods [ 12 , 13 ] delve deeper into the intra-trajectory generation process by periodically injecting stochastic noise to dilute accumulated errors during inference. While mitigating accumulated errors, such blind perturbations lack a deterministic direction to steer the drifted trajectory back toward the natural video manifold, inadvertently introducing secondary distortions. 

> ∗Corresponding Author: Yi Yang. Preprint.
> arXiv:2606.11969v1 [cs.CV] 10 Jun 2026

zt

> Ideal Trajectory
> Baseline Trajectory
> Rectified Trajectory
> Trajectory
> Rectification

zt,0 

> An ice hockey player checks another player,
> causing the second player to fall to the ice.

ẑ 

> t,0

ẑ   

> t
> Lookahead
> Re -Noising
> Latent Update
> 3D FFT 3D iFFT
> (a) (b)
> Rectification

Figure 1: Concept and pipeline of SpecLoR. (a) Accumulated errors drift the Flow Matching trajectory from the ideal trajectory, yielding spatiotemporal inconsistencies. SpecLoR seamlessly anchors it back to a more valid trajectory. (b) At early timesteps, we project the noisy latent zt to a lookahead state zt, 0. We decouple its spatiotemporal spectrum, rectifying only the amplitude to a universal prior while preserving phase. The corrected state ˆzt, 0 is then re-noised to ˆzt, resuming ODE integration. Rather than modifying the trajectory directly within the noisy latent space, where timestep-dependent noise severely obscures reliable spatiotemporal structural cues, we bypass this interference by projecting the latent onto a clean lookahead anchor. Crucially, we observe that trajectory drift manifests predominantly as spectral energy distortion . Although the predicted lookahead state should ideally reconstruct the clean video latent, velocity approximation errors during early, high-noise steps distort its global frequency amplitude. Natural videos characteristically exhibit a power-law decay in their spatiotemporal spectrum, with the amplitude following a 1/f α distribution [ 18 ]. However, trajectory deviations disrupt this natural prior, yielding abnormal spectral distributions that manifest as visible artifacts such as ghosting, duplicated structures, and unnatural motion. Since these distortions emerge precisely when the global motion structure is actively forming, correcting this drift at its inception proves highly effective. Consequently, early restoration of the natural spectral prior provides a robust structural constraint while preserving the instance-specific geometry encoded in the phase, successfully avoiding the complexity of altering the entire sampling trajectory. Motivated by this insight, we introduce Spectral Lookahead Rectification (SpecLoR) , an inference-time sampling method that mitigates trajectory drift via spectral amplitude alignment. As illustrated in Fig.1b, SpecLoR first projects the noisy latent zt onto its theoretical lookahead anchor, zt, 0, and extracts its spatiotemporal spectrum. Then, the amplitude spectrum is rectified to match this natural prior while preserving the intricate, geometry-encoding phase [ 19 ]. Finally, the corrected latent ˆzt, 0

is re-noised back to the current timestep as ˆzt to resume ODE integration. By restoring the natural spectral magnitude during early sampling stages, SpecLoR acts as a reliable structural anchor. It steers the sampling trajectory back toward the natural video manifold, ensuring integration proceeds from a more physically valid state. Comprehensive evaluations on SOTA video generators demonstrate that SpecLoR effectively suppresses structural artifacts and enhances motion coherence across complex dynamics. Specifically, integrating SpecLoR into the advanced Wan2.2 framework substantially elevates visual fidelity and spatiotemporal consistency across multiple challenging benchmarks, while incurring minimal computational overhead (only 4 additional NFEs in a 40-step schedule). Our contributions can be summarized as follows: • We identify spectral amplitude distortion as a key manifestation of sampling drift, providing a novel mechanistic insight into structural artifacts within Flow Matching-based video synthesis. • We introduce SpecLoR , a plug-and-play inference-time method that effectively calibrates the amplitude spectrum of the clean lookahead predictions using statistical video priors, seamlessly reintegrating this restored state to guide the drifted trajectory back onto the natural video manifold. • We reveal that spectral distortions emerge prominently during early sampling stages as global motion characteristics are established. By strategically confining our rectification to this critical window, SpecLoR acts as an efficient structural constraint, substantially enhancing spatiotemporal consistency in SOTA models ( e.g., Wan2.2) with minimal overhead (only 4 additional NFEs). 

## 2 Related work 

2.1 Large-Scale Text-to-Video Generation and Flow Matching 

Text-to-Video (T2V) generation has recently witnessed a paradigm shift from iterative Diffusion Models (DMs) [ 20 – 22 ] to continuous-time Flow Matching (FM) [ 9 , 10 , 23 , 24 ] paradigms. By 2formulating generative modeling as an optimal transport problem, FM constructs straighter, more pre-dictable probability paths than traditional diffusion, significantly accelerating convergence. Coupled with highly scalable Diffusion Transformers [ 25 ], this framework has rapidly become the de facto backbone for recent state-of-the-art large video foundation models, including Sora [ 3], Kling [ 4], HunyuanVideo [ 1, 26 ], and Wan [ 2]. However, extending FM to high-fidelity, large-scale video synthesis heavily exacerbates a critical vulnerability during inference. The generative process relies on solving an Ordinary Differential Equation (ODE) via discrete numerical integration ( e.g., Euler or UniPC [ 27 ]). Because predicting the true vector field for high-dimensional, spatiotemporally entangled video data is exceedingly difficult, especially in the high-noise early stages, the network inevitably produces significant velocity approximation errors during inference. As highlighted in recent studies on generative trajectory dynamics [ 12 , 13 ], these step-by-step errors quickly accumulate into severe trajectory drift, irrevocably pulling the generated latents off the natural video manifold. 

2.2 Inference-Time Sampling and Trajectory Control 

To mitigate video generation artifacts, recent works have introduced various inference-time strategies [ 28 – 42 ]. One line of research focuses on guidance modulation; for instance, CFG-Zero [ 43 ]adjusts Classifier-Free Guidance [ 44 ] to prevent color over-saturation. While effective for global contrast, it fails to resolve the progressive accumulation of sampling drift. Alternative approaches explore path search [ 14 – 16 , 45 , 46 ] via rejection sampling or test-time selection; however, these methods are often computationally expensive for high-dimensional video. Similarly, noise initializa-tion techniques [ 11 , 17 ] solely target the trajectory’s initial state, leaving the subsequent ODE drift unmitigated. Another direction involves sampling interventions [ 13 , 12 ]. Restart Sampling [ 12 ], for example, periodically injects noise to re-evaluate problematic segments, yet this stochasticity inadver-tently introduces new errors into the trajectory. More recently, test-time optimization approaches such as FlowMo [ 47 ] enforce temporal coherence during inference. However, these gradient-dependent methods operate strictly in the spatial domain. Since global motion and fine geometric details are deeply entangled within the spatial latent, direct modifications often unintentionally blur semantic textures or incur prohibitive computational overhead. In contrast, SpecLoR shifts the structural constraint to the frequency domain, where the global amplitude spectrum and instance-specific phase details can be seamlessly decoupled and safely rectified without compromising visual fidelity. 

2.3 Spectral Dynamics and Natural Scene Statistics 

Analyzing visual signals in the frequency domain provides a mathematically rigorous perspective on generation quality. Natural Scene Statistics demonstrate that real-world videos exhibit a charac-teristic 1/f α power-law decay in their 3D spatiotemporal spectrum [ 18 ], which remains preserved within Video Autoencoder latent spaces [ 48 , 22 ]. While recent image diffusion works [ 49 – 51 ] ex-plore frequency interventions, they primarily reweight 2D spatial features within noise-corrupted intermediate network states. Directly extending these to video fails because ODE trajectory drift fundamentally corrupts the macroscopic 3D energy distribution across frames. Similarly, previous video methods [ 11 , 17 ] utilizing spatial filtering often operate on noisy states, erroneously conflating structural geometry with signal energy. SpecLoR is fundamentally distinct: rather than modulating noisy spatial features, it operates strictly in the 3D spatiotemporal frequency domain on a noise-free lookahead prediction. By explicitly enforcing the natural 1/f α amplitude prior, SpecLoR corrects trajectory drift at its root while leaving the delicate, geometry-encoding phase strictly intact. 

## 3 Spectral Perspective on Trajectory Drift 

In Flow Matching (FM), imperfect velocity predictions and numerical discretization inevitably introduce sampling trajectory drift. As errors accumulate, intermediate latent states deviate from the ideal generative path. Visualizing intermediate lookahead predictions (Fig. 2a) reveals a strict temporal dependency: severe structural artifacts at the end of generation ( e.g., entangled instances at Step 39) fundamentally originate from structural ambiguities during early sampling stages. Analyzing this phenomenon from a frequency perspective, we empirically observe that the macro-scopic amplitude of the video latent, which governs global energy distribution, diverges significantly from natural priors during these early stages. Because amplitude provides the macroscopic energy foundation, this early drift permanently misguides the trajectory, forcing the structurally sensitive 3Rectify    

> (a) (b)
> Step 5 (Frame1) Step 2 (Frame1) Step 39 (Frame1) Step 39 (Frame51)
> An ice hockey player checks another player, causing the second player to fall to the ice.

Figure 2: Trajectory drift and spectral rectification. (a) Visualizing intermediate lookahead predictions. Baseline (top): early structural ambiguity at Step 5 degrades into severe physical artifacts by Step 39 (red circles). SpecLoR (bottom) explicitly rectifies amplitude during early stages to establish a coherent global structure. (b) Quantitative tracking of frequency dynamics, measured by correlating intermediate steps against each method’s final latent. Targeted amplitude rectification accelerates geometric phase convergence, fundamentally shifting the trajectory toward a valid endpoint. phase to converge into structurally incoherent states. This reveals a critical opportunity: mitigating trajectory drift does not necessitate full latent manipulation. In a pilot experiment, we rectified the amplitude spectrum exclusively during early ODE integration (Steps 2-5), leaving the phase untouched. To quantify the resulting dynamics (Fig.2b), we calculate the correlation of intermediate latents against the final generated output at Step 40 of each respective method. We acknowledge that using each method’s own final latent serves as a proxy target. Defining an absolute “ground truth” trajectory in text-to-video Flow Matching is theoretically ill-posed, as a single text condition maps to a highly multimodal distribution of valid videos rather than a singular deterministic endpoint. While our proxy lacks a strictly independent external reference, it effectively tracks the relative stabilization of the generative path. The curves reveal that this targeted amplitude intervention implicitly accelerates phase convergence towards this stabilized target, surpassing the baseline during the intervention window and maintaining this advantage. Crucially, this early constraint does not accelerate convergence to the flawed original destination; it fundamentally shifts the entire trajectory, enabling the model to arrive at a distinctly different and structurally superior endpoint. 

## 4 Method 

The central challenge in Flow Matching-based video generation is the accumulation of numerical and predictive errors, which inevitably forces the sampling trajectory off the natural video manifold. To address this, we introduce Spectral Lookahead Rectification (SpecLoR), a practical, highly efficient inference method. Classical signal processing theory [ 19 ] establishes that the phase spectrum encodes delicate geometric details and is highly vulnerable to arbitrary interventions, which easily introduce severe structural artifacts (as empirically verified in §5.3). Concurrently, as quantitatively demonstrated by our spectral dynamics analysis (Fig.2b), explicitly rectifying the macroscopic energy distribution (amplitude) effectively drives the geometric phase to converge. Grounded in this insight, our method mitigates trajectory drift via a structured four-stage pipeline, as illustrated in Fig.3. 

4.1 Lookahead Projection 

Diagnosing trajectory drift directly within the intermediate noisy latent space zt is intractable due to the dominance of timestep-dependent noise. To bypass this, we utilize the current predicted vector field vθ (zt, t ) to project the state into a noise-free space. As shown in Fig.3 (Stage 1), we estimate the clean latent zt, 0 via a single Euler step: 

zt, 0 = zt − t · vθ (zt, t ). (1) This lookahead prediction zt, 0 acts as a diagnostic window, revealing early structural ambiguities before they solidify into physical artifacts. We explicitly constrain this operation to a specific “Lookahead Window” during the early high-noise regime ( e.g., steps 2-5 in a 40-step schedule). 4t=1  t=0                     

> Lookahead Window
> step2 step5
> STAGE 1: Lookahead Projection
> ztzt,0
> Estimate Clean Latent
> zt,0 = z t–t·vθ(z t, t)
> Euler step
> Phase
> Amplitude
> Clean
> Latent
> STAGE 2:
> Frequency Decoupling
> (3D FFT)
> Preserve
> Prompt: An ice hockey player checks
> another player, causing the second
> player to fall to the ice.
> 3D FFT
> ODE
> Timesteps
> step5
> ODE
> Timesteps
> Lookahead Window
> step2
> STAGE 4:
> Re -Noising & Inference
> +(1 -t) ×t×
> t=1 t=0
> zt,0
> P
> A, P = 3D FFT(z t,0 )ẑ t= (1 -t) ·  ẑ t,0 + t ·noise ẑ
> t,0 ẑ t
> Linear Interpolation ẑ
> t,0
> OPTION A: SpecLoR -Zero
> Average Amplitude Distorted Amplitude
> Preserved Phase Rectified Latent
> OPTION B: SpecLoR -Adapter
> 3D
> iFFT
> Text Emb
> Clean Latent
> Timestep
> FreqAdapter
> +
> 3D
> iFFT
> A
> AΔA
> μref δref ẑ
> t,0
> Phase
> STAGE 3:
> Amplitude Rectification

Figure 3: Pipeline of the proposed SpecLoR method. In Stage 1, the intermediate noisy latent zt is projected to a clean lookahead state zt, 0. Stage 2 explicitly decouples the spatiotemporal spectrum into amplitude and phase via 3D FFT. To correct trajectory drift, the corrupted amplitude is rectified using either a zero-cost global prior (Option A) or a context-aware adapter (Option B), while the detail-preserving phase is strictly locked. Finally, in Stage 4, the rectified spectrum is inverted and re-noised back to ˆzt, providing a structurally sound anchor for the subsequent ODE integration. 

4.2 Frequency Decoupling 

Directly modifying the spatial representation of zt, 0 is challenging because global motion structures and fine geometric details are tightly coupled. Any spatial intervention intended to correct this trajectory drift often unintentionally blurs semantic textures. To overcome this entanglement, we shift our intervention to the frequency domain (Fig.3, Stage 2). Specifically, we apply a 3D Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) across the temporal and spatial dimensions ( T, H, W ) of zt, 0. This transformation explicitly decouples the macroscopic energy (Amplitude A), which is susceptible to trajectory drift yet safe to rectify, from the highly vulnerable, geometry-encoding phase (Phase P). By isolating and strictly preserving the phase P, we establish a decoupled representation where the amplitude can be corrected without compromising instance-specific details or visual fidelity. 

4.3 Amplitude Rectification SpecLoR-Zero (Global Prior). According to Natural Scene Statistics [ 18 ], real-world videos consistently exhibit a 1/f α power-law spectral decay. However, trajectory drift prominently manifests as a severe deviation from this established prior. To rectify this, as depicted in (Fig.3 Option A), we introduce an asymmetric trust region derived from a universal natural prior ( μref , σ ref ) pre-computed from roughly 2,000 randomly sampled real videos. We bound the current amplitude Acurr within this natural variance envelope to obtain the target amplitude Atgt :

Atgt = clip( Acurr , γ · μref , μ ref + kσ ref ), (2) where γ (set to 0.6) and k (set to 3) denote the lower and upper margin factors, respectively. We then apply a weighted update to obtain the final rectified amplitude: 

Arect = Acurr + λ · (Atgt − A curr ), (3) where λ controls the intervention strength (empirically set to 0.5). This overhead-free structural anchor effectively stabilizes the trajectory, preventing physically implausible artifacts. 

SpecLoR-Adapter (Context-Aware Refinement). While the universal prior provides a robust foundation, ideal energy distributions vary across motion dynamics. To capture these instance-specific variations, we introduce the SpecLoR-Adapter (Fig.3, Option B). Constructed with Diffusion Transformer (DiT) blocks, the SpecLoR-Adapter leverages the predicted lookahead latent zt, 0, timestep embeddings temb , and text conditions to estimate an instance-specific residual amplitude map ∆A. During offline training on natural videos, we simulate the Flow Matching forward process on a ground-truth latent z0 (with exact amplitude Agt ) to sample an early-stage noisy latent zt. After deriving the current lookahead amplitude Acurr from the predicted zt, 0, the adapter is optimized via a Mean Squared Error (MSE) loss in the logarithmic magnitude space: 

L = ∥log(1 + Acurr + ∆ A) − log(1 + Agt )∥22 . (4) 5This log transformation compresses the spectrum’s massive dynamic range caused by power-law decay. It prevents low-frequency dominance from overwhelming the loss, forcing the adapter to capture fragile high-frequency structural details while stabilizing training gradients. Crucially, the base video model remains strictly frozen throughout training. At inference, the adapter yields the final context-aware rectified amplitude: Arect = Acurr + ∆ A.

4.4 Re-Noising & Inference 

Once the amplitude is rectified, we combine Arect with the securely preserved phase P. A 3D Inverse FFT (iFFT) projects them back into the latent space, yielding a purified, structurally rectified clean anchor ˆzt, 0. To integrate this corrected state back into the ODE solver (Fig.3, Stage 4), we re-noise 

ˆzt, 0 back to the exact current timestep t via linear interpolation with a noise term ϵ:

ˆzt = (1 − t) · ˆzt, 0 + t · ϵ.  (5) 

Deterministic Continuation: By setting ϵ = ϵinit , we recycle the exact initial noise map to serve as a strict control. By fixing the randomness, we ensure that any shift in the trajectory is exclusively driven by our SpecLoR intervention. This perfectly preserves the spatiotemporal dynamics of the baseline, providing a strictly controlled visual environment that directly proves our method’s effectiveness in eliminating physically implausible motion and structural artifacts. 

Stochastic Contraction: By setting ϵ ∼ N (0 , I ), we inject freshly sampled stochastic noise. Draw-ing on the error-contraction properties of generative processes [ 12 ], introducing stochasticity helps contract accumulated ODE discretization errors. Since SpecLoR already anchors the rectified macro-scopic physical trajectory, this fresh noise optimizes local details without causing spatiotemporal collapse, yielding a globally more physically coherent video distribution. 

## 5 Experiments 

To comprehensively evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed SpecLoR, we conduct extensive experiments focusing on motion coherence, overarching visual quality, and computational efficiency. 

5.1 Experiment Setup Benchmarks. We meticulously evaluate our method across two rigorous benchmarks tailored for physical and temporal stability: (1) Dynamic-Bench [ 13 ] to assess structural stability under challenging, multi-object interactions and complex human motions; and (2) VideoJAM-Bench [ 52 ]to target the joint appearance-motion coherence of generated dynamics. 

Evaluation Metrics. To ensure a multi-dimensional assessment, we categorize our metrics as follows: • Visual & Physical Integrity: Evaluated via the Visual Quality, Physical Consistency, and T2V Alignment scores from VideoScore2 [53], alongside the overall Consistency from VBench [54]. • Temporal Dynamics: Assessed using Motion Smoothness and Dynamic Degree from VBench. • Computational Efficiency: Strictly tracked via the Number of Function Evaluations (NFE). 

Implementation Details. Built upon Wan2.2-A14B T2V [ 2] (default 40 NFEs), SpecLoR operates exclusively during the early “Lookahead Window” (Steps 2-5). This targeted, inference-only interven-tion inherently bounds computational overhead, requiring only 44 NFEs. Experiments are conducted on 910B NPU with 60GB of memory, taking approximately 20 minutes to generate a single video. 

5.2 Evaluation on Complex Dynamics 

Generating complex dynamics often exposes the fragility of the standard sampling trajectory. We evaluate the performance of SpecLoR against existing methods across the following three dimensions: 

Quantitative Comparison. As summarized in Table 1, both variants of SpecLoR demonstrate consistent improvements in objective metrics across Dynamic-Bench and VideoJAM-Bench. On VideoJAM-Bench, SpecLoR-Adapter achieves the highest score in T2V Alignment (4.126), while SpecLoR-Zero achieves the highest Physical Consistency (3.448) and Visual Quality (3.939). On Dynamic-Bench, SpecLoR-Zero establishes the top T2V Alignment (3.651), while SpecLoR-Adapter achieves the highest Visual Quality (3.864). Compared to the baseline and other inference-time 6Table 1: Quantitative comparison. Best scores are in bold and second best are underlined. VideoScore2 VBench Efficiency Method T2V Align. ↑ Phys. Cons. ↑ Visual Qual. ↑ Consistency ↑ Motion Smooth. ↑ NFE ↓ Time ↓                                                                                  

> Results on VideoJAM-Bench [52]
> Wan2.2 T2V (UniPC) 4.062 3.237 3.873 0.935 0.972 40 + NFE ×1.5 4.046 3.260 3.834 0.935 0.974 60 1.5 ×
> + FlowMo [47] 4.044 3.179 3.805 0.939 0.974 40 1.7 ×
> + SRVS [13] 4.067 3.341 3.926 0.943 0.979 60 1.5 ×
> + SpecLoR-Zero (Ours) 4.118 ±0.013 3.448 ±0.018 3.939 ±0.017 0.939 ±0.002 0.977 ±0.004 44 1.1 ×
> + SpecLoR-Adapter (Ours) 4.126 ±0.011 3.441 ±0.019 3.927 ±0.014 0.940 ±0.003 0.977 ±0.002 44 1.1 ×
> Results on Dynamic-Bench [13]
> Wan2.2 T2V (UniPC) 3.605 2.687 3.745 0.909 0.974 40 + NFE ×1.5 3.541 2.898 3.688 0.912 0.974 60 1.5 ×
> + FlowMo [47] 3.585 3.086 3.745 0.911 0.975 40 1.7 ×
> + SRVS [13] 3.584 2.993 3.800 0.917 0.981 60 1.5 ×
> + SpecLoR-Zero (Ours) 3.651 ±0.012 2.993 ±0.012 3.810 ±0.014 0.915 ±0.005 0.980 ±0.003 44 1.1 ×
> + SpecLoR-Adapter (Ours) 3.588 ±0.014 3.058 ±0.021 3.864 ±0.013 0.914 ±0.004 0.980 ±0.002 44 1.1 ×

interventions (FlowMo and SRVS), our method effectively enhances Physical Consistency while maintaining highly competitive Motion Smoothness ( e.g., reaching 0.980 on Dynamic-Bench). This indicates that amplitude rectification preserves the natural temporal progression of the video. 

Computational Efficiency. SpecLoR is designed as an exceptionally lightweight, inference-time intervention. As shown in the Efficiency columns of Table 1, SpecLoR requires only 44 NFEs, introducing a minimal overhead (1.1 × Time) over the standard 40-step baseline. This provides a highly favorable performance-compute trade-off compared to simply scaling up the ODE solver steps (NFE ×1.5), which demands 60 NFEs and a 1.5 × time penalty. Furthermore, SpecLoR maintains a decisive efficiency advantage when benchmarked against other test-time techniques like SRVS (60 NFEs, 1.5 × Time) and FlowMo (1.7 × Time). See Appendix §B.3 for the memory overhead. Text       

> Alignment
> Motion
> Coherence
> Video
> Quality
> 20.3% 68.8% 10.9%
> 39.8% 43.8% 16.4%
> 43.0% 39.1% 17.9%
> Win Rate

Figure 4: User study on VideoJAM-Bench. 

User Study. We conduct a blind human pref-erence study on VideoJAM-Bench. Annotators evaluate randomized video pairs (the Wan2.2 baseline vs. SpecLoR) across three criteria: Text Alignment, Motion Coherence, and Video Qual-ity. As illustrated in Fig. 4, SpecLoR consis-tently outperforms the baseline. Specifically, our method receives substantially higher prefer-ence votes in Video Quality (43.0% vs. 17.9%) and Motion Coherence (39.8% vs. 16.4%). Fur-thermore, while the robust baseline model already exhibits excellent capability in Text Alignment, resulting in a high tie rate of 68.8%, SpecLoR still maintains a noticeable edge (20.3% vs. 10.9%). These results confirm that SpecLoR successfully translates into visually superior and motion-coherent dynamics, while fully preserving and even enhancing the base model’s strong prompt adherence. 

Qualitative Results. Visual inspections (as shown in Fig.5) corroborate our quantitative findings. While baseline trajectories and extended sampling approaches occasionally struggle with geometric distortions or semantic ambiguities under intense motion, SpecLoR yields clearer structural bound-aries and fewer physically implausible artifacts. This explicitly aligns with the improved Physical Consistency metric, demonstrating that SpecLoR effectively mitigates trajectory drift. 

5.3 Diagnostic Experiment 

We validate our method via ablations on Wan2.2 using Dynamic-Bench. To isolate intervention effects, all diagnostics (except Table2) strictly employ Deterministic Continuation. 

Intervention Target: Amplitude vs. Phase. We first investigate what happens if we intervene on the phase instead of the amplitude. We conducted experiments rectifying only the phase using global natural statistics. Rather than merely generating spatial artifacts, altering the instance-specific phase directly led to a fundamental breakdown of the underlying motion structure. As demonstrated in Fig.6, arbitrarily altering the phase disrupts delicate temporal alignment, causing severe dynamic anomalies ( e.g., forcing fast-moving actions into disjointed, extremely slow-motion sequences). Because phase inherently encodes spatiotemporal displacement, its disruption primarily corrupts 7Baseline +Ours Baseline +Ours Baseline +Ours Baseline +Ours Baseline +Ours 

> A hammer strikes a nail, driving it partially into the wood, but the second strike bends the nail sideways.
> A figure skater executes a triple axel, taking off forward and rotating
> three and a half times before landing backward on one foot.
> A yoga instructor flows from a downward dog into a scorpion handstand,
> balancing on their forearms with legs arched over their head.
> A pole vaulter plants the pole, the pole bends dramatically, launching the athlete feet -first over the bar.
> A stunt performer is "shot," jerking backward violently and falling over a railing, flailing arms.

Figure 5: Qualitative comparison of spatially consistent video generation against Wan2.2-A14b T2V. Artifacts and structural errors are indicated by green bounding boxes. motion coherence without adding typical spatial noise. This strictly confirms that amplitude remains the only mathematically safe target for early-stage structural intervention. 

The Role of Re-Noising Stochasticity. Finally, we investigate the impact of the noise term ϵ during re-noising (Table2). Strict Deterministic Continuation ( ϵ = ϵinit ) preserves the baseline’s original kinetic energy, thereby retaining a higher Dynamic Degree while facilitating precisely controlled visual comparisons. Conversely, Stochastic Contraction ( ϵ ∼ N (0 , I )) injects freshly sampled noise. Protected by the SpecLoR-rectified trajectory, this resets local discretization errors, yielding superior Consistency and Motion Smoothness. However, this reveals a fundamental consistency-dynamism trade-off, a phenomenon similarly observed in perturbation-based methods like SRVS [ 13 ]. Stochastic noise acts as an implicit temporal regularizer that smooths the generative path; while this effectively suppresses structural artifacts, it inherently dampens high-frequency motion variance, deliberately trading peak dynamic intensity for global spatiotemporal stability. 

Modulation Strength ( λ) Dynamics. As detailed in Table3, we evaluated the intervention perfor-mance using λ ∈ { 0.2, 0.5, 0.8, 1.0}. While overall quantitative differences are bounded, extreme values introduce specific qualitative failure modes. A weak intervention ( λ = 0 .2) is insufficient to pull the trajectory out of the drift. Conversely, a highly aggressive replacement ( λ = 1 .0) triggers 8A cheetah running in the Savannah. 

> Phase Amplitude

Frame 1  Frame 81 Figure 6: Diagnostic comparison of intervention targets (Phase vs. Amplitude). Table 2: Ablation on re-noising stochasticity. Setting Consist. ( ↑) Smooth. ( ↑) Dyn. Deg. ( ↑)Zero (Det.) 0.909 0.974 0.916          

> Zero (Stoch.) 0.912 0.977 0.850 Adapt. (Det.) 0.910 0.973 0.875
> Adapt. (Stoch.) 0.914 0.979 0.800

Table 3: Ablation on modulation strength ( λ). Method Consist. ( ↑) Smooth. ( ↑) Dyn. Deg. ( ↑)                   

> λ= 1 .00.908 0.973 0.908
> λ= 0 .80.909 0.973 0.883
> λ= 0 .50.909 0.974 0.916
> λ= 0 .20.910 0.974 0.900 A woman performing an intricate dance on stage, illuminated by a single spotlight in the first frame. She is dressed in a lon g
> black dress and a wide -brimmed hat, with her arms raised above her head. The woman dance Argentine flamenco dance.
> λ= 1 λ= 0.5

Figure 7: Impact of modulation strength ( λ). An aggressive intervention with λ = 1 .0 (left) causes numerical instability, sometimes visually desynchronizing the initial frame from the sequence. numerical instability in subsequent ODE steps, causing the initial frame to become visually unco-ordinated with the rest of the sequence (Fig.7). Setting λ = 0 .5 emerges as the optimal sweet spot, providing a firm energy anchor while granting the ODE solver necessary mathematical flexibility. 

## 6 Discussion and Conclusion 

Limitations. While SpecLoR stabilizes structure by preserving the phase spectrum, this strict adherence can be a double-edged sword. If initial phase predictions are severely corrupted during the earliest ODE steps, locking the phase might trap extreme non-rigid transformations into unnatural states. Additionally, computing a global 3D spatiotemporal FFT introduces memory overhead that scales with spatial resolution and sequence length, and this formulation binds the pre-computed statistical prior to a fixed shape, necessitating a complete re-extraction if the resolution changes. 

Conclusion. In this work, we address a fundamental bottleneck in Flow Matching-based video generation: the unchecked accumulation of trajectory drift during ODE integration, which irrecov-erably corrupts spatiotemporal and structural coherence. To overcome this, we introduce Spectral Lookahead Rectification (SpecLoR), an efficient inference paradigm that shifts trajectory correction to the frequency domain. By diagnosing drift via lookahead projection, our method strategically anchors the macroscopic amplitude to match natural video priors during the earliest inference steps, while strictly protecting the geometry-encoding phase. This asymmetric treatment yields a critical insight: explicitly correcting amplitude organically drives the sensitive phase to converge toward structurally valid states. Consequently, this steers the generation trajectory back on track without relying on spatial perturbations. By resolving foundational trajectory drift with a minimal overhead of merely 4 additional NFEs, SpecLoR redefines the cost-performance trade-off in inference-time optimization. Ultimately, this mathematically sound, plug-and-play method boosts large-scale video foundation models, advancing reliable and motion-coherent spatiotemporal generation. 9References 

[1] Weijie Kong, Qi Tian, Zijian Zhang, Rox Min, Zuozhuo Dai, Jin Zhou, Jiangfeng Xiong, Xin Li, Bo Wu, Jianwei Zhang, et al. HunyuanVideo: A systematic framework for large video generative models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.03603 , 2024. [2] Team Wan, Ang Wang, Baole Ai, Bin Wen, Chaojie Mao, Chen-Wei Xie, Di Chen, Feiwu Yu, Haiming Zhao, Jianxiao Yang, et al. Wan: Open and advanced large-scale video generative models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.20314 , 2025. [3] Yixin Liu, Kai Zhang, Yuan Li, Zhiling Yan, Chujie Gao, Ruoxi Chen, Zhengqing Yuan, Yue Huang, Hanchi Sun, Jianfeng Gao, et al. Sora: A review on background, technology, limitations, and opportunities of large vision models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.17177 , 2024. [4] Kling Team, Jialu Chen, Yuanzheng Ci, Xiangyu Du, Zipeng Feng, Kun Gai, Sainan Guo, Feng Han, Jingbin He, Kang He, et al. Kling-Omni technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.16776 , 2025. [5] Ruben Villegas, Mohammad Babaeizadeh, Pieter-Jan Kindermans, Hernan Moraldo, Han Zhang, Moham-mad Taghi Saffar, Santiago Castro, Julius Kunze, and Dumitru Erhan. Phenaki: Variable length video generation from open domain textual descriptions. In Int. Conf. Learn. Represent. , 2023. [6] Yifu Zhang, Hao Yang, Yuqi Zhang, Yifei Hu, Fengda Zhu, Chuang Lin, Xiaofeng Mei, Yi Jiang, Bingyue Peng, and Zehuan Yuan. Waver: Wave your way to lifelike video generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.15761 , 2025. [7] Yu Gao, Haoyuan Guo, Tuyen Hoang, Weilin Huang, Lu Jiang, Fangyuan Kong, Huixia Li, Jiashi Li, Liang Li, Xiaojie Li, et al. Seedance 1.0: Exploring the boundaries of video generation models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.09113 , 2025. [8] Team Seedance. Seedance 2.0: Advancing video generation for world complexity. arXiv preprint arXiv:2604.14148 , 2026. [9] Yaron Lipman, Ricky TQ Chen, Heli Ben-Hamu, Maximilian Nickel, and Matthew Le. Flow matching for generative modeling. In Int. Conf. Learn. Represent. , 2023. [10] Xingchao Liu, Chengyue Gong, et al. Flow straight and fast: Learning to generate and transfer data with rectified flow. In Int. Conf. Learn. Represent. , 2023. [11] Tianxing Wu, Chenyang Si, Yuming Jiang, Ziqi Huang, and Ziwei Liu. FreeInit: Bridging initialization gap in video diffusion models. In Eur. Conf. Comput. Vis. , pages 378–394. Springer, 2024. [12] Yilun Xu, Mingyang Deng, Xiang Cheng, Yonglong Tian, Ziming Liu, and Tommi Jaakkola. Restart sampling for improving generative processes. In Adv. Neural Inform. Process. Syst. , pages 76806–76838, 2023. [13] Sangwon Jang, Taekyung Ki, Jaehyeong Jo, Saining Xie, Jaehong Yoon, and Sung Ju Hwang. Self-refining video sampling. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.18577 , 2026. [14] Raghav Singhal, Zachary Horvitz, Ryan Teehan, Mengye Ren, Zhou Yu, Kathleen McKeown, and Rajesh Ranganath. A general framework for inference-time scaling and steering of diffusion models. In Int. Conf. Mach. Learn. , 2024. [15] Yuta Oshima, Masahiro Suzuki, Yutaka Matsuo, and Hiroki Furuta. Inference-time text-to-video alignment with diffusion latent beam search. In Adv. Neural Inform. Process. Syst. , 2025. [16] Haoran He, Jiajun Liang, Xintao Wang, Pengfei Wan, Di Zhang, Kun Gai, and Ling Pan. Scaling image and video generation via test-time evolutionary search. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.17618 , 2025. [17] Yunlong Yuan, Yuanfan Guo, Chunwei Wang, Wei Zhang, Hang Xu, and Li Zhang. FreqPrior: Improving video diffusion models with frequency filtering gaussian noise. In Int. Conf. Learn. Represent. , 2025. [18] Dawei W Dong and Joseph J Atick. Statistics of natural time-varying images. Network: computation in neural systems , 6(3):345, 1995. [19] Alan V Oppenheim and Jae S Lim. The importance of phase in signals. Proceedings of the IEEE ,69(5):529–541, 1981. [20] Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising diffusion probabilistic models. In Adv. Neural Inform. Process. Syst. , volume 33, pages 6840–6851, 2020. 

10 [21] Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick Esser, and Björn Ommer. High-resolution image synthesis with latent diffusion models. In IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recog. , pages 10684– 10695, 2022. [22] Andreas Blattmann, Tim Dockhorn, Sumith Kulal, Daniel Mendelevitch, Maciej Kilian, Dominik Lorenz, Yam Levi, Zion English, Vikram Voleti, Adam Letts, et al. Stable video diffusion: Scaling latent video diffusion models to large datasets. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.15127 , 2023. [23] Michael Albergo and Eric Vanden-Eijnden. Building normalizing flows with stochastic interpolants. In Int. Conf. Learn. Represent. , 2023. [24] Maojiang Su, Mingcheng Lu, Jerry Yao-Chieh Hu, Shang Wu, Zhao Song, Alex Reneau, and Han Liu. A theoretical analysis of discrete flow matching generative models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.22623 , 2025. [25] William Peebles and Saining Xie. Scalable diffusion models with transformers. In Int. Conf. Comput. Vis. ,pages 4195–4205, 2023. [26] Bing Wu, Chang Zou, Changlin Li, Duojun Huang, Fang Yang, Hao Tan, Jack Peng, Jianbing Wu, Jiangfeng Xiong, Jie Jiang, et al. Hunyuanvideo 1.5 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.18870 , 2025. [27] Wenliang Zhao, Lujia Bai, Yongming Rao, Jie Zhou, and Jiwen Lu. Unipc: A unified predictor-corrector framework for fast sampling of diffusion models. In Adv. Neural Inform. Process. Syst. , volume 36, pages 49842–49869, 2023. [28] Harold Haodong Chen, Haojian Huang, Xianfeng Wu, Yexin Liu, Yajing Bai, Wen-Jie Shu, Harry Yang, and Ser-Nam Lim. Temporal regularization makes your video generator stronger. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.15417 , 2025. [29] Xueji Fang, Liyuan Ma, Zhiyang Chen, Mingyuan Zhou, and Guo-jun Qi. InfLVG: Reinforce inference-time consistent long video generation with grpo. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.17574 , 2025. [30] Fangfu Liu, Hanyang Wang, Yimo Cai, Kaiyan Zhang, Xiaohang Zhan, and Yueqi Duan. Video-T1: Test-time scaling for video generation. In Int. Conf. Comput. Vis. , pages 18671–18681, 2025. [31] Jie Liu, Gongye Liu, Jiajun Liang, Ziyang Yuan, Xiaokun Liu, Mingwu Zheng, Xiele Wu, Qiulin Wang, Menghan Xia, Xintao Wang, et al. Improving video generation with human feedback. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.13918 , 2025. [32] Yang Luo, Xuanlei Zhao, Mengzhao Chen, Kaipeng Zhang, Wenqi Shao, Kai Wang, Zhangyang Wang, and Yang You. Enhance-A-Video: Better generated video for free. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.07508 , 2025. [33] Hyelin Nam, Jaemin Kim, Dohun Lee, and Jong Chul Ye. Optical-flow guided prompt optimization for coherent video generation. In IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recog. , pages 7837–7846, 2025. [34] Haonan Qiu, Menghan Xia, Yong Zhang, Yingqing He, Xintao Wang, Ying Shan, and Ziwei Liu. FreeNoise: Tuning-free longer video diffusion via noise rescheduling. In Int. Conf. Learn. Represent. , 2024. [35] Yu Lu, Yuanzhi Liang, Linchao Zhu, and Yi Yang. FreeLong: Training-free long video generation with spectralblend temporal attention. In Adv. Neural Inform. Process. Syst. , pages 131434–131455, 2024. [36] Zhuoling Li, Hossein Rahmani, Qiuhong Ke, and Jun Liu. LongDiff: Training-free long video generation in one go. In IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recog. , pages 17789–17798, 2025. [37] Dohun Lee, Bryan Sangwoo Kim, Geon Yeong Park, and Jong Chul Ye. VideoGuide: Improving video diffusion models without training through a teacher’s guide. In IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recog. ,pages 2599–2608, 2025. [38] Pascal Chang, Jingwei Tang, Markus Gross, and Vinicius C. Azevedo. How i warped your noise: a temporally-correlated noise prior for diffusion models. In Int. Conf. Learn. Represent. , 2024. [39] Mariam Hassan, Bastien Van Delft, Wuyang Li, and Alexandre Alahi. Factorized video generation: Decoupling scene construction and temporal synthesis in text-to-video diffusion models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.16371 , 2025. [40] Yang Fei, George Stoica, Jingyuan Liu, Qifeng Chen, Ranjay Krishna, Xiaojuan Wang, and Benlin Liu. Structure from tracking: Distilling structure-preserving motion for video generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.11792 , 2025. 

11 [41] Ahmet Berke Gokmen, Yigit Ekin, Bahri Batuhan Bilecen, and Aysegul Dundar. RoPECraft: Training-free motion transfer with trajectory-guided rope optimization on diffusion transformers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.13344 , 2025. [42] Chenhui Zhu, Yilu Wu, Shuai Wang, Gangshan Wu, and Limin Wang. MotionRAG: Motion retrieval-augmented image-to-video generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.26391 , 2025. [43] Weichen Fan, Amber Yijia Zheng, Raymond A Yeh, and Ziwei Liu. CFG-Zero*: Improved classifier-free guidance for flow matching models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.18886 , 2025. [44] Jonathan Ho and Tim Salimans. Classifier-free diffusion guidance. In NeurIPS 2021 Workshop on Deep Generative Models and Downstream Applications , 2021. [45] Byeonghu Na, Yeongmin Kim, Minsang Park, Donghyeok Shin, Wanmo Kang, and Il Chul Moon. Diffusion rejection sampling. In Int. Conf. Mach. Learn. , volume 235, pages 37097–37121, 2024. [46] Vignav Ramesh and Morteza Mardani. Test-time scaling of diffusion models via noise trajectory search. In Adv. Neural Inform. Process. Syst. , 2025. [47] Ariel Shaulov, Itay Hazan, Lior Wolf, and Hila Chefer. FlowMo: Variance-based flow guidance for coherent motion in video generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.01144 , 2025. [48] Pingyu Wu, Kai Zhu, Yu Liu, Liming Zhao, Wei Zhai, Yang Cao, and Zheng-Jun Zha. Improved video vae for latent video diffusion model. In IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recog. , pages 18124–18133, 2025. [49] Xiaoqian Lv, Shengping Zhang, Chenyang Wang, Yichen Zheng, Bineng Zhong, Chongyi Li, and Liqiang Nie. Fourier priors-guided diffusion for zero-shot joint low-light enhancement and deblurring. In IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recog. , pages 25378–25388, 2024. [50] Chenyang Si, Ziqi Huang, Yuming Jiang, and Ziwei Liu. FreeU: Free lunch in diffusion u-net. In IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recog. , pages 4733–4743, 2024. [51] Haosen Yang, Adrian Bulat, Isma Hadji, Hai X Pham, Xiatian Zhu, Georgios Tzimiropoulos, and Brais Martinez. FAM Diffusion: Frequency and attention modulation for high-resolution image generation with stable diffusion. In IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recog. , pages 2459–2468, 2025. [52] Hila Chefer, Uriel Singer, Amit Zohar, Yuval Kirstain, Adam Polyak, Yaniv Taigman, Lior Wolf, and Shelly Sheynin. VideoJAM: Joint appearance-motion representations for enhanced motion generation in video models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.02492 , 2025. [53] Xuan He, Dongfu Jiang, Ping Nie, Minghao Liu, Zhengxuan Jiang, Mingyi Su, Wentao Ma, Junru Lin, Chun Ye, Yi Lu, et al. VideoScore2: Think before you score in generative video evaluation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.22799 , 2025. [54] Ziqi Huang, Yinan He, Jiashuo Yu, Fan Zhang, Chenyang Si, Yuming Jiang, Yuanhan Zhang, Tianxing Wu, Qingyang Jin, Nattapol Chanpaisit, et al. VBench: Comprehensive benchmark suite for video generative models. In IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recog. , pages 21807–21818, 2024. [55] Adam Polyak, Amit Zohar, Andrew Brown, Andros Tjandra, Animesh Sinha, Ann Lee, Apoorv Vyas, Bowen Shi, Chih-Yao Ma, Ching-Yao Chuang, et al. Movie Gen: A cast of media foundation models. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.13720 , 2024. [56] Yi Wang, Yinan He, Yizhuo Li, Kunchang Li, Jiashuo Yu, Xin Ma, Xinyuan Chen, Yaohui Wang, Ping Luo, Ziwei Liu, Yali Wang, Limin Wang, and Yu Qiao. InternVid: A large-scale video-text dataset for multimodal understanding and generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.06942 , 2023. 

12 A Summary of the Appendix 

We provide additional details and comprehensive analyses in this supplementary material, which are conceptually organized into three main parts: 

Part I: Methodological & Theoretical Insights 

• §A.1 provides an extended spectral analysis, empirically verifying that the spatiotemporal power-law prior is strictly preserved within the highly compressed 3D latent space. • §A.2 provides an extended discussion on related inference-time trajectory control methods, high-lighting our conceptual and computational distinctions from stochastic spatial perturbation ap-proaches. 

Part II: Reproducibility & Implementation Details 

• §B.1 elaborates on the data sourcing and code availability, providing a PyTorch-style pseudo-code to ensure immediate reproducibility of the core SpecLoR inference step. • §B.2 documents the licenses and terms of use for all pre-trained models, datasets, and evaluation benchmarks utilized in this research to ensure compliance. • §B.3 introduces extended implementation details, including the global prior extraction process, the SpecLoR-Adapter architecture and training specifics, and an analysis of the memory overhead. • §B.4 details the setup, double-blind protocol, and interface used for the human preference user study. 

Part III: Extended Experiments & Applications 

• §C presents extended experimental results and analyses. This section includes a sensitivity ablation on the Lookahead Window ( §C.1 ), a discussion on method limitations via non-rigid/chaotic failure cases ( §C.2 ), additional performance evaluations on high-fidelity cinematic scenarios (MovieGen-Bench [ 55 ]) ( §C.3 ), and a demonstration of our method’s model-agnostic generalization to the 

HunyuanVideo-1.5 architecture ( §C.4 ). 

## A Methodological & Theoretical Insights 

A.1 Empirical Verification of Spatiotemporal Power-Law 

Figure S1: Empirical verification of the power-law prior in the 3D VAE latent space. According to Natural Scene Statistics [ 18 ], real-world visual signals naturally exhibit a power-law decay in their amplitude spectrum. To em-pirically verify that this fundamental property is preserved within the highly compressed 3D latent space of modern video autoencoders, we aggregate the amplitude spectrum across 2,000 clean videos. Specifically, after computing the 3D FFT, we map the 3D Cartesian frequency coordinates (u, v, w ) to a 1D radial frequency 

f = √u2 + v2 + w2. Here, (u, v, w ) explic-itly represent the normalized digital frequencies obtained via FFT shifting, which are strictly bounded by the Nyquist limit [−0.5, 0.5] across all dimensions. By averaging the amplitude val-ues within discretized radial frequency bins, we collapse the 4D amplitude tensor A ∈ RC×T ×H×W into a simplified 1D radial amplitude profile 

A(f ). As illustrated in Fig. S1, when plotted on a log-log scale, the extracted global prior strictly adheres to a linear decay, empirically confirming the theoretical relation A(f ) ∝ 1/f α. Our linear regression yields an empirical spatiotemporal scaling exponent of α ≃ 1.66 .13 A.2 Extended Discussion on Trajectory Control 

Addressing trajectory drift in continuous-time generative models is a rapidly evolving area. Our proposed SpecLoR shares the foundational motivation of recent inference-time interventions, yet diverges significantly in its core mechanism. 

Stochastic Spatial Perturbation vs. Deterministic Spectral Rectification. Recent advancements, most notably Self-Refining Video Sampling (SRVS) [ 13 ] and Restart Sampling [ 12 ], tackle trajectory drift by injecting stochastic noise into intermediate spatial latents. These methods effectively "rewind" the trajectory to re-evaluate structural features and dilute accumulated numerical errors. While SRVS intelligently minimizes accumulated error to guide this perturbation, the stochastic nature of noise injection within the highly entangled spatial domain can still inadvertently disrupt fragile local geometry. In contrast, SpecLoR is strictly deterministic. By decoupling the signal via 3D FFT, we mathematically isolate the macro-drifting component (amplitude) from the structural blueprint (phase). This enables SpecLoR to explicitly correct the trajectory using a firm natural prior without introducing any unpredictable spatial variance. 

Spatial Optimization vs. Spectral Efficiency. Other concurrent works, such as FlowMo [ 47 ], enforce temporal coherence through variance-based guidance or gradient-based manipulation. While highly effective at maintaining motion consistency, spatial optimization often requires repeated for-ward passes or heavy gradient computations, substantially inflating the computational footprint ( e.g., a 1.7× increase in total inference time). SpecLoR fundamentally bypasses this bottleneck by lever-aging the efficiency of spectral decoupling. Rectifying the amplitude spectrum via our lightweight SpecLoR-Zero introduces a mere 10% overhead (4 additional NFEs), shifting the trajectory correction paradigm from computationally heavy spatial guidance to highly efficient spectral anchoring. 

## B Reproducibility & Implementation Details 

B.1 Data & Code Availability Data Sourcing. Both the global prior extraction (SpecLoR-Zero) and the training of the context-aware adapter (SpecLoR-Adapter) utilize the exact same dataset subset, consisting of 2,000 randomly sampled high-quality video clips strictly sourced from the InternVid-10M-FLT dataset [56]. 

Code & Reproducibility. This supplementary material provides the source code for the core inference components of our proposed SpecLoR method. The complete codebase, encompassing the SpecLoR-Adapter training scripts, pre-calculated global prior statistics, and automated evaluation pipelines, will be open-sourced upon acceptance to facilitate future research in trajectory control for continuous-time generative models. To guarantee immediate reproducibility of our core contribution, we provide a PyTorch-style pseudo-code for the SpecLoR inference step in Algorithm S1. 

B.2 Licenses of Assets Used 

To ensure full compliance with the NeurIPS guidelines regarding the use of existing assets, we document the licenses and terms of use for all pre-trained models, datasets, and evaluation benchmarks utilized in this research: • Wan2.2 Model Series: The foundational text-to-video model, Wan2.2-A14B [ 2], is distributed under the Apache 2.0 License , which permits free use, modification, and distribution for both research and commercial purposes. • InternVid-10M-FLT Dataset: The 2,000 video clips used for extracting the global spectral prior and training the SpecLoR-Adapter were sampled from the InternVid dataset [ 56 ], which is available under the CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 License .• Evaluation Benchmarks & Metrics: The standardized video evaluation frameworks and metric models employed in our study—including VBench [ 54 ], VideoScore2 [ 53 ], Dynamic-Bench [ 13 ], VideoJAM-Bench [ 52 ], and MovieGen-Bench [ 55 ]—are generally open-sourced under the Apache 2.0 License , CC BY-NC 4.0 License or MIT License for research purposes. We confirm that our usage of these assets is strictly limited to research and evaluation, fully respecting the original creators’ terms of service and copyright notices. 14 Algorithm S1 Pseudo-code for the SpecLoR Inference Step in a PyTorch-like style. 

> # Models & Variables: # v_theta: Flow Matching velocity network (\eg, Wan2.2 DiT). # freq_adapter: Optional trained DiT for context-aware residual amplitude. # initial_noise: The exact initial Gaussian noise map sampled at t=1. def speclor_step(z_t, t, text_emb, v_theta, freq_adapter, global_prior, initial_noise, lambda_weight=0.5): # 1. Lookahead Projection (Eq. 1) velocity = v_theta(z_t, t) z_t0_pred = z_t - t * velocity # 2. Spatiotemporal Frequency Decoupling via 3D FFT # z_t0_pred shape: [B, C, T, H, W] fft_z = torch.fft.fftn(z_t0_pred.float(), dim=(-3, -2, -1)) amplitude = torch.abs(fft_z) phase = torch.angle(fft_z) # 3. Amplitude Rectification if freq_adapter is not None: # SpecLoR-Adapter (Option B) delta_A = freq_adapter(z_t0_pred, t, text_emb) A_rectified = amplitude + delta_A else: # SpecLoR-Zero Global Prior (Option A) # Note: mu_ref and sigma_ref are full 4D Tensors [C, T, H, W] mu_ref, sigma_ref = global_prior # Apply asymmetric trust region clipping (Eq. 2) gamma, k = 0.6, 3.0 A_target = torch.clamp(amplitude, min=gamma * mu_ref, max=mu_ref + k * sigma_ref) # Apply bounded residual update (Eq. 3) A_rectified = amplitude + lambda_weight * (A_target - amplitude) # 4. Re-Noising & Inference # Reconstruct the spectrum keeping Phase strictly locked fft_rectified = A_rectified * torch.exp(1j * phase) z_t0_rectified = torch.fft.ifftn(fft_rectified, dim=(-3, -2, -1)).real # Anchor the trajectory back to the current timestep (Eq. 5) z_t_rectified = (1 - t) * z_t0_rectified + t * initial_noise return z_t_rectified

B.3 Extended Implementation Details Global Prior Statistics (SpecLoR-Zero). The 2,000 sampled videos from InternVid-10M-FLT are preprocessed to a spatial resolution of 480 × 832 with a sequence length of 81 frames. We encode these clean videos using the frozen Variational Autoencoder (VAE) of Wan2.2-A14B [ 2 ]. To ensure numerical precision during frequency decoupling, latent representations are explicitly cast to float32 before the 3D FFT. Crucially, rather than averaging the spectrum over spatiotemporal dimensions to obtain a single scalar per channel, we preserve the entire structural blueprint. Thus, the extracted global prior mean μref and standard deviation σref are highly detailed 4D tensors of shape 

C × T × H × W (specifically, 16 × 21 × 60 × 104 ). 

SpecLoR-Adapter Architecture. To capture context-aware dynamic variance, SpecLoR-Adapter is designed as a highly lightweight architecture constructed from merely 2 Diffusion Transformer (DiT) [ 25 ] blocks. Instead of processing spatial latents directly, the adapter performs a 3D FFT on the lookahead latent zt, 0. The resulting magnitude spectrum undergoes a logarithmic mapping, 

log(1+ A), before projection into a compact hidden dimension of 128. Rotary Positional Embeddings (RoPE) are explicitly applied along the frequency dimension. Cross-attention layers within each 4-head DiT block condition the residual amplitude prediction on text embeddings (context dimension of 4096). We employ the AdamW optimizer (learning rate 5×10 −5, cosine scheduler, 300 warmup steps) to minimize the MSE between predicted and ground-truth logarithmic magnitudes. The model is trained for 30 epochs (batch size 1, 4 gradient accumulation steps) in bfloat16 precision, while the foundational Wan2.2 parameters remain strictly frozen. 

Memory Overhead of Spatiotemporal FFT. While SpecLoR achieves exceptional computational efficiency regarding NFEs, computing the full 3D FFT via torch.fft.fftn introduces a memory 15 Figure S2: An example of the local scoring spreadsheet used by evaluators to record their preferences across three criteria for each anonymized video pair. footprint during inference. For a 14B model like Wan2.2, standard latents ( zt, 0) are in 16-bit float (2 bytes/element). However, FFT mathematical operations require PyTorch to upcast these real tensors to complex64 (32-bit real + 32-bit imaginary, totaling 8 bytes/element). Given a batch size 

B, channels C, and spatiotemporal dimensions T × H × W , the peak memory footprint for the transformed tensor Acurr becomes: 

MF F T = B × C × T × H × W × 8 bytes . (6) While perfectly manageable for standard resolutions ( e.g., 480 ×832 , 81 frames), this quadratic scaling highlights a potential bottleneck for future ultra-high-resolution or minutes-long video generation, necessitating future explorations into windowed or patch-based spectral approximations. 

B.4 Details of the User Study 

Five graduate student volunteers with computer vision backgrounds conducted the evaluation. To ensure a strict double-blind setup, we employed a local evaluation protocol. A custom Python script randomly shuffled and renamed the video pairs (Baseline vs. SpecLoR) to eliminate positional bias. Evaluators viewed these anonymized pairs locally and recorded their preferences (Video 1, Video 2, or Tie) across Text Alignment, Motion Coherence, and Video Quality, as illustrated in Fig.S2. The randomization script is provided in the supplementary materials. 

## C Extended Experiments & Applications 

Table S1: Quantitative evaluation of intervention window timing on VideoJAM-Bench. Early intervention (Steps 2–5) is crucial; late interventions fail to rectify already-corrupted phase geometry. Method Consistency ( ↑) Motion Smooth. ( ↑) Dynamic Degree ( ↑) NFE Time Wan2.2 T2V (UniPC) 0.935 0.972 0.875 40 + SpecLoR-Zero (step 6-9) 0.935 0.971 0.844 44 1.1 ×                    

> + SpecLoR-Zero (step 10-13) 0.933 0.971 0.844 44 1.1 ×
> + SpecLoR-Zero (step 14-17) 0.932 0.970 0.856 44 1.1 ×
> + SpecLoR-Zero (step 2-5) 0.939 0.973 0.859 44 1.1 ×
> + SpecLoR-Adapter (step 2-5) 0.942 0.978 0.783 44 1.1 ×

C.1 Sensitivity to the Lookahead Window 

In the main text, we rigidly restrict the SpecLoR intervention to steps 2 to 5 of a 40-step UniPC schedule. TableS1 empirically demonstrates why isolating this specific early, high-noise regime is mathematically critical. 

The Cost of Late Intervention. Delaying the rectification window to later stages ( e.g., steps 10-13 or 14-17) completely fails to rescue the trajectory. As shown, Subject Consistency progressively deteriorates to 0.933 and 0.932, while Motion Smoothness falls to 0.971 and 0.970, performing demonstrably worse than the unguided baseline. By step 6 and beyond, continuous trajectory drift has already permanently corrupted the geometric phase. Attempting to repair the amplitude at these later stages cannot undo established structural tearing ( e.g., duplicated limbs). 

The Early Advantage. Conversely, anchoring the amplitude specifically during steps 2-5 successfully guides the trajectory before severe structural drift solidifies, achieving highly competitive Consistency (0.939) and Motion Smoothness (0.973) with the zero-cost prior, and peaking at 0.942 and 0.978 using our SpecLoR-Adapter. 16 Baseline 

> A bowl of Jell -O is nudged, wobbling vigorously with a gelatinous, elastic motion that slowly dampens.
> A distinct drop of ink falls into a glass of clear water, blooming into abstract, smoke -like tendrils as it diffuses.
> Baseline SpecLoR -Zero SpecLoR -Adapter  SpecLoR -Zero SpecLoR -Adapter

Figure S3: Visual demonstration of failure cases under chaotic, non-rigid transformations. By strictly preserving the early-stage phase, SpecLoR can inadvertently lock the generation into an unnatural geometric state, such as transferring gelatinous properties to a rigid glass bowl (top) or preventing the natural topological diffusion of an ink drop (bottom). 

C.2 Limitations: Chaotic and Non-Rigid Transformations 

While SpecLoR excels at preserving kinematic structure for rigid bodies and human dynamics by locking the phase spectrum, this strict adherence introduces failure modes in highly chaotic systems. Fig.S3 visually dissects these limitations under extreme non-rigid transformations. 

Elastic Dynamics (Jell-O). When evaluating gelatinous, wobbly motion, leaving the chaotic phase dynamics unmodified causes physical properties to erroneously bleed into the environment. As shown in the top row of Fig. S3, the rigid glass bowl itself begins to drastically warp and wobble in the SpecLoR output, adopting the elastic properties of the Jell-O. 

Fluid Diffusion (Ink). In scenarios involving rapid topological changes, such as an ink drop diffusing in water, strictly preserving the early-stage phase inadvertently locks the generation into an unnatural geometric state. Rather than blooming into smoke-like tendrils, the ink droplet persists as an unnatural, rigid spherical structure falling through the water (bottom row, green boxes), fundamentally failing to capture the continuous destruction of diffusion. This suggests that future trajectory control mechanisms must distinguish between rigid structural preservation and non-rigid chaotic evolution. We empirically observe that employing the stochastic variant of our method partially mitigates this limitation, as the injected noise provides the necessary geometric flexibility to break these unnatural rigid locks. This suggests that future trajectory control mechanisms must distinguish between rigid structural preservation and non-rigid chaotic evolution. 

C.3 Motion Coherence under High-Fidelity Cinematic Scenarios 

Beyond structural physics in local interactions, we further investigated whether amplitude rectification improves overall motion stability in high-fidelity, high-resolution cinematic generations. As presented 17 Table S2: Quantitative results on MovieGen-Bench. Both variants of SpecLoR substantially lift the Dynamic Degree and Motion Smoothness with minimal computational overhead, proving strong generalization to high-fidelity cinematic generations. Method Consistency ( ↑) Motion Smooth. ( ↑) Dynamic Degree ( ↑) NFE Time Wan2.2 T2V (UniPC) 0.932 0.977 0.754 40 + NFE ×1.5 0.932 0.977 0.757 60 1.5 ×

+ SpecLoR-Zero (Ours) 0.933 0.978 0.782 44 1.1 ×

+ SpecLoR-Adapter (Ours) 0.932 0.978 0.783 44 1.1 ×

Table S3: Quantitative comparison on HunyuanVideo-1.5 . Best scores are in bold .VideoScore2 VBench Efficiency Method T2V Align. ↑ Phys. Cons. ↑ Visual Qual. ↑ Consistency ↑ Motion Smooth. ↑ NFE ↓ Time ↓                          

> Results on VideoJAM-Bench [52]
> HunyuanVideo-1.5 3.833 2.924 3.486 0.938 0.985 50 + SpecLoR-Zero (Ours) 3.890 ±0.015 3.260 ±0.017 3.736 ±0.012 0.943 ±0.003 0.992 ±0.002 57 1.14 ×
> Results on Dynamic-Bench [13]
> HunyuanVideo-1.5 3.213 2.634 3.532 0.911 0.987 50 + SpecLoR-Zero (Ours) 3.283 ±0.011 2.785 ±0.018 3.674 ±0.014 0.915 ±0.004 0.993 ±0.001 57 1.14 ×

in Table S2, both SpecLoR-Zero and SpecLoR-Adapter exhibit substantial gains on the rigorous MovieGen-Bench [ 55 ], comprehensively lifting the Dynamic Degree and Motion Smoothness without sacrificing base Consistency. Because SpecLoR operates strictly in the frequency domain and safely rectifies only the macroscopic energy, it intrinsically avoids injecting conflicting spatial patterns that could destabilize camera panning or zooming, a common vulnerability in stochastic perturbation methods. This mechanism ensures fluid subject motion and highly stable background consistency. The context-aware SpecLoR-Adapter further pushes this ceiling, optimizing complex motion trajectories to achieve peak dynamic performance while maintaining strong prompt adherence, ensuring high-fidelity scenes remain both dynamic and coherent. 

C.4 Generalization to HunyuanVideo-1.5 

To verify the model-agnostic nature of SpecLoR, we extend the framework to the HunyuanVideo-1.5 

(480p) architecture [ 26 ]. Due to time and computational constraints, we focus our evaluation in this section exclusively on the zero-cost SpecLoR-Zero variant. Furthermore, during inference, we empirically adjusted the default Classifier-Free Guidance (CFG) scale down to 3.0. While the baseline HunyuanVideo model often operates at higher guidance scales (e.g., 6.0), applying our strict spectral amplitude rectification under such aggressive CFG introduces severe visual artifacts. This occurs because an overly high CFG actively pushes latents into saturated, high-variance regions, creating a mathematical conflict with SpecLoR-Zero ’s objective of anchoring macroscopic energy back to a natural prior. By lowering the CFG to 3.0, we effectively harmonize the text guidance with our spectral regularization, yielding coherent and high-fidelity dynamics. For the 50-step sampling schedule used in HunyuanVideo-1.5, we set the Lookahead Window to steps 4–10. This configuration is chosen for two primary reasons: • Efficiency Consistency: Applying 7 additional steps in a 50-step schedule incurs a modest 14% 

computational overhead, keeping the relative cost comparable to our 40-step Wan2.2 experiments. • Timestep Alignment: In the discrete flow-matching process, steps 4–10 in a 50-step schedule correspond to a noise-level range (timesteps) that is more equivalent to steps 2–5 in a 40-step schedule. This ensures that the spectral rectification targets the same critical early stage where global motion structures begin to coalesce. Preliminary results (See TableS3) confirm that SpecLoR successfully suppresses structural artifacts and improves motion stability in HunyuanVideo-1.5 without architecture-specific tuning. 18