Title: Sigma-Branch: Hierarchical Single-Path Network Reconstruction for Dynamic Inference with Reduced Active Parameters

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.09924v1

Published Time: Wed, 10 Jun 2026 00:03:16 GMT

Number of Pages: 11

Markdown Content:
> TANAKA et al. : SIGMA-BRANCH: HIERARCHICAL SINGLE-PATH NETWORK RECONSTRUCTION 1

# Sigma-Branch: Hierarchical Single-Path Network Reconstruction for Dynamic Inference with Reduced Active Parameters 

Kohga Tanaka and Hiroaki Nishi 

Abstract —Deploying deep neural networks on memory-constrained edge accelerators is bottlenecked by per-inference off-chip weight transfer rather than computation: the dense net-work cannot be retained on-chip, and every parameter must be loaded for every input. Existing model compression reduces this transfer only at the cost of permanent capacity loss. We propose Sigma-Branch ( ΣB), a framework that restructures a pretrained dense network into a hierarchical binary tree composed of a shared backbone, hierarchical routers and specialized leaves. Pretrained weights are distributed across the tree via activation-based spherical k-means clustering, which jointly initializes router weights and per-branch channel allocations; soft-routing fine-tuning then aligns each leaf with its routed input subset. At inference, the resulting network executes only a single root-to-leaf path, reducing the active-parameter footprint while storing the complete dense parameter set in memory. Across CIFAR-100 / ResNet-50, ImageNet-1K / ResNet-50, and ModelNet40 / PointNet++, ΣB-Net reduces per-inference active parameters by 58–60 % while remaining within 1.72 percentage points (pp) of the dense baseline Top-1. At comparable ImageNet-1K Top-1, the active-parameter reduction exceeds static structured prun-ing (FPGM, HRank) by 14–23 pp. The cross-modal evaluation, spanning 2D vision and 3D point-cloud backbones, substantiates a framework-level claim that decouples per-inference memory traffic from the total parameter count. 

Index Terms —Active-parameter reduction, dynamic inference, edge inference, hierarchical routing, mixture of experts, model compression. 

I. I NTRODUCTION 

A. Background 1) Scaling of Deep Learning Models: Deep neural net-works (DNNs) have advanced markedly through scaling: larger models trained with more data and compute consistently achieve higher accuracy, from convolutional backbones such as ResNet [1] to Vision Transformers (ViT) of several hundred million parameters [2]. These models are designed under the assumption of data-center-grade compute and are not natively suited to environments outside that regime. 

2) Rising Importance of Edge AI: Concurrent with this scaling trend, an increasing share of inference must be per-formed at the edge of the network, on devices ranging from 

This work was supported by the JSPS KAKENHI (Grant Number JP26K02884). The authors also gratefully acknowledge support from the JST SIP Project (Grant Number JPJ012207). K. Tanaka is with the Graduate School of Science and Technol-ogy, Keio University, Kohoku-ku, Yokohama 223-8522, Japan (e-mail: tanaka@west.sd.keio.ac.jp). H. Nishi is with the Department of System Design, Faculty of Science and Technology, Keio University, Kohoku-ku, Yokohama 223-8522, Japan. 

mobile phones to FPGAs and microcontrollers [3], for reasons that include low latency, on-device privacy, and network-free operation. The compute and memory capacity of such platforms are orders of magnitude smaller than those of data-center systems, and inference typically runs at a batch size of one, which together make direct deployment of most large-scale models impractical. Vision models for the edge, therefore, remain predominantly CNN-based (e.g. ResNet [1], MobileNet [4], ConvNeXt [5]) or MLP-based for 3D data [6], [7], and even these backbones continue to scale up in pursuit of accuracy, intensifying the compute and memory demands placed on edge devices. 

B. Problem Statement 1) Memory-Constrained Accelerators on the Edge: Modern DNNs exhibit a static computation structure: every parameter is typically accessed for every input, regardless of input difficulty. As a result, each inference requires loading the entire set of weights from memory for models that exceed the on-chip memory capacity. Meanwhile, the edge increasingly hosts accelerators beyond GPUs—FPGAs, NPUs, Edge TPUs, and microcontrollers— where on-chip memory (e.g., BRAM, SRAM) is orders of magnitude smaller than that of data-center systems. Most practical models do not fit entirely on-chip, making weight loading from off-chip DRAM a critical bottleneck on these platforms. On such memory-constrained devices, weight loading di-rectly governs inference latency: the volume of weights loaded per inference is limited by available memory bandwidth and on-chip capacity. Recent work has shown that for large DNNs at small batch sizes, weight loading time dominates while compute units remain largely idle [8]. Edge GPUs face the same issue: for example, the NVIDIA Jetson Orin Nano provides 8 GB of on-board memory at 68 GB/s of bandwidth, whereas a data-center NVIDIA H100 (SXM5) offers 80 GB at 3.35 TB/s—an order of magnitude difference in capacity and roughly two orders of magnitude in bandwidth. The batch-size-one regime typical of real-time edge applications further exacerbates this bottleneck. We therefore identify the reduction of active parameter memory , i.e., the parameters that must be loaded for a single inference, as a key consideration for efficient inference on memory-constrained edge accelerators.   

> arXiv:2606.09924v1 [cs.LG] 7 Jun 2026 TANAKA et al. : SIGMA-BRANCH: HIERARCHICAL SINGLE-PATH NETWORK RECONSTRUCTION 2

2) Model Reconstruction for Reduced Memory Footprint: 

Existing model compression techniques—pruning, knowledge distillation, and quantization—reduce the total parameter count permanently [9], [10]. However, this permanent reduction can degrade the model’s representational capacity. A complementary direction is to exploit input-dependent sparsity in DNN inference. Empirical evidence indicates that the effective subset of computation varies with the input: DeepMoE shows that the useful channel subset within a convo-lutional layer is input-dependent [11], and SkipNet shows that whole residual blocks can be skipped per input [12]. Using the full parameter set for every inference is therefore inherently redundant. A branched architecture is a natural way to capitalize on this observation while decoupling capacity from compute . Each branch can specialize to a subset of the input distribution, so the model retains the full dense parameter set rather than permanently removing parameters; meanwhile, at inference, only the backbone plus a single branch is active, directly reducing the memory footprint without permanently removing parameters. In this work, we propose ΣB (Sigma-Branch), an um-brella framework for activation-based hierarchical model re-construction with single-path inference. Within this umbrella, we develop a single concrete instantiation, ΣB-Method , the conversion procedure described in Section III, and refer to the network produced by it as ΣB-Net . Throughout the paper, 

ΣB denotes the framework concept, ΣB-Method denotes the procedure that operates on a pretrained model, and ΣB-Net denotes the resulting network whose inference behavior and empirical numbers are reported. Pretrained models are restructured into hierarchical branched networks, and only a single path is executed at inference. The total parameter count is preserved while the active-parameter memory is substantially reduced, with evaluation focused on memory-bound edge deployment. 

C. Contributions of This Work 

The contributions of this paper are as follows.  

> •

Hierarchical Model Reconstruction (C1). We propose 

ΣB-Method, a framework that converts pretrained net-works into hierarchical, MoE-like branched structures, distinguishing our approach from flat MoE-style decom-position.  

> •

Cross-Modal Applicability (C2). We demonstrate the framework on convolutional networks (ResNet-50) and on point-cloud networks (PointNet++), establishing ap-plicability across two distinct modalities.  

> •

Extreme Active-Parameter Reduction (C3). ΣB-Net achieves 58–60 % active-parameter reduction across CIFAR-100/ResNet-50, ImageNet/ResNet-50, and Mod-elNet40/PointNet++, while preserving the classification accuracy of the dense baseline. This substantially exceeds state-of-the-art structured pruning baselines (FPGM, HRank) at comparable compression ratios. II. R ELATED WORK 

We organize previous work into two streams that frame the position of ΣB-Method: static structured pruning, which per-manently shrinks the model graph (Section II-A), and mixture-of-experts and hierarchical decomposition, which restructures a dense network to enable input-dependent computation paths (Section II-B). We then position ΣB-Method against represen-tative methods along four design axes (Section II-C). 

A. Static Structured Pruning 

Static structured pruning permanently removes redundant filters or channels from a pretrained network in an input-independent manner. A range of importance criteria has been proposed to identify which parameters to drop, each offering a distinct view of filter or channel redundancy and demonstrat-ing measurable compression benefits at comparable accuracy. Representative importance criteria include geometric median distance among filters (FPGM [13]) and feature-map rank (HRank [14]). However, this stream shares a structural limitation that motivates the present work. Because the parameter removal is permanent, the post-pruning network has strictly lower representational capacity than the dense baseline; this loss has been shown to disproportionately affect minority-class and atypical samples [15], consistent with the representational-capacity motivation discussed in Section I-B. 

B. Mixture-of-Experts and Hierarchical Decomposition 

A complementary stream introduces input-dependent paths by decomposing a network into experts or a tree of spe-cialized sub-networks. Conventional mixture-of-experts (MoE) increases capacity by adding many expert branches and routing each input through only the top-k of them: sparsely-gated MoE [16] and DeepSeekMoE [17] both follow this expansion strategy, in which the total parameter count grows roughly with the number of experts. While effective for scaling large language models, this is less suitable for memory-bound edge accelerators, whose on-chip capacity limits the total, not just the active, parameter count. A second line preserves the total parameter count of a pretrained dense network and instead carves it into experts or a tree. DeepMoE introduces sample-level channel routing into a convolutional backbone by gating channel subsets with a shallow embedding network [11]; routing is per-input, but the structure remains flat, with no backbone shared across the per-input sub-networks. A recent line of work analytically restructures the feed-forward (FFN) sub-layer of a pretrained transformer into a mixture of experts using neuron activation statistics alone, requiring no retraining [18]. The restructuring, however, is confined to FFN sub-layers in transformer-based large language models: the attention modules remain dense, so the model-wide active-parameter reduction is bounded by the FFN share of the total compute rather than applied to the network as a whole, and the construction does not extend to convolutional or point-cloud backbones. DecisioNet converts a CNN into a binary tree of specialized sub-networks and routes TANAKA et al. : SIGMA-BRANCH: HIERARCHICAL SINGLE-PATH NETWORK RECONSTRUCTION 3                               

> TABLE I POSITIONING OF SIGMA -B RANCH METHOD RELATIVE TO REPRESENTATIVE COMPRESSION AND DYNAMIC -INFERENCE METHODS .
> ✓:SATISFIED ; –: NOT SATISFIED .Method Hier. Unsup. Sample-Cross-struct. part. level modal FPGM [13] –✓––DeepMoE [11] –✓✓–Anal. FFN-to-MoE [18] –✓––DecisioNet [19] ✓–✓–
> ΣB-Method (ours) ✓✓✓✓

each input through a single path at inference [19], which is structurally the closest prior work to ΣB-Method; however, its tree split is supervised by a class-confusion hierarchy derived from labels, and its evaluation is confined to convolutional backbones. 

C. Positioning of Sigma-Branch Method 

Table I positions ΣB-Method against representative methods from both streams along four design axes that follow directly from the requirements established in Section I-B. A hierarchical structure enables progressive capacity de-composition: a shared trunk carries generic features for every sample, while deep leaves specialize to input clusters, yielding partial sharing that a flat MoE cannot achieve. Unsupervised 

partitioning by activation statistics is required wherever a class-label hierarchy is unavailable or misaligned with the learnable feature structure, including 3D point-cloud bench-marks for which no canonical label tree exists. Sample-level routing is the natural granularity for image and point-cloud inputs, for which token-level feed-forward slicing in transformers does not apply, and it matches the batch-size-one regime of edge inference. Finally, cross-modal validation is required to substantiate a framework-level claim rather than an architecture-specific result. To our knowledge, ΣB-Method is the only method discussed above that simultaneously satisfies all four axes as required by the memory-bound edge setting that motivates this work (Section I-B). III. S IGMA -B RANCH METHOD 

We now describe ΣB-Method, a framework that restructures a pretrained dense network into a hierarchical, single-path inference network we call ΣB-Net. The framework consists of four components: a formal specification of the hierarchical binary-tree architecture (Section III-A–III-B); an activation-based weight distribution procedure that transfers the pre-trained weights into the new architecture (Section III-C); a soft-routing fine-tuning protocol with a specialist classification loss and a routing responsibility loss (Section III-D); and a hard top-1 inference procedure that executes only a single path per input (Section III-E). Throughout this section we use a 2-level, 4-leaf instantiation as the canonical example. Binary routing provides a simple recursive decomposition rule compatible with the activation-based spherical k-means initialization: each split partitions the feature space into two sub-clusters while keeping the router lightweight and the Input Backbone         

> L1 Router
> L1 Specializer L1 Specializer
> L2 Router
> L2 Router
> L2 Specializer L2 Specializer L2 Specializer L2 Specializer
> Leaf Head Leaf Head Leaf Head Leaf Head
> Output Output Output Output
> Fig. 1. Overall architecture of Sigma-Branch Net in the 2-level, 4-leaf canonical configuration. The shared backbone is followed by hierarchical binary routers and per-branch specializers, with a leaf-specific classification head at every leaf.

routing depth logarithmic in the number of leaves. The (2 , 4) 

hierarchy used throughout this work is therefore intended as a minimal canonical instantiation rather than a claim of optimal tree size. The framework generalizes naturally to deeper trees, and we instantiate it on two distinct backbones in Section III-F. 

A. Framework Overview 

ΣB-Net is a hierarchical binary tree in which a shared backbone is followed by routers, branch-specific specializers, and per-leaf classification heads, as illustrated in Fig. 1. The shared backbone fBB processes every input sample and provides the common feature on which the first router operates. At each level ℓ, a router projection πℓ produces a low-dimensional latent, a binary router Rℓ produces a two-way routing distribution, and two specializers s(b) 

> ℓ

further process the feature conditional on the chosen branch b ∈ { 0, 1}. At the final level L, each leaf k has its own classification head μk.The 2-level, 4-leaf canonical configuration therefore has one backbone, two level-1 specializers, four level-2 specializers, three routers, and four leaf heads. Every router is binary, so that the activation-based ini-tialization of Section III-C applies recursively at each split. The network has two modes of operation: at training time, it evaluates all leaves and combines them through their routing probabilities, while at inference time, it selects a single leaf by hard top-1 routing. 

B. Hierarchical Binary-Tree Formulation 

Let x denote an input sample and z = fBB (x) the backbone feature. At level ℓ, the router projection uℓ = πℓ(·) consists of an average pool, a linear layer, layer normalization, and dropout, and produces a low-dimensional latent. The binary router applies a linear map followed by softmax, 

p(ℓ) = softmax  Rℓ(uℓ) ∈ ∆1, (1) where ∆1 denotes the 1-simplex. The probability of reaching leaf k factorizes hierarchically as the product of per-level probabilities, 

pleaf (k | x) = 

> L

Y

> ℓ=1

p(ℓ)

> bℓ(k)

, (2) TANAKA et al. : SIGMA-BRANCH: HIERARCHICAL SINGLE-PATH NETWORK RECONSTRUCTION 4

where bℓ(k) ∈ { 0, 1} denotes the branch chosen at level ℓ

on the path to leaf k. The output of leaf k is obtained by composing the specializers along that path and then applying the leaf head, 

yk = μk

 s(bL(k))  

> L

◦ · · · ◦ s(b1(k)) 1 (z). (3) At training time, the network output is the routing-weighted combination ˆysoft = PKk=1 pleaf (k | x) yk; at inference, only the single leaf with the highest routing probability is evaluated, as detailed in Section III-E. The number of parameters that must be loaded at inference, 

Pactive = |θBB | +

> L

X

> ℓ=1

|θs(bℓ(k∗)) 

> ℓ

| + |θμk∗ |, (4) is therefore proportional to a single root-to-leaf path, while the total parameter count Ptotal = |θBB | + 2 |θs1 | + 4 |θs2 | + 4 |θμ|

in the 4-leaf configuration is substantially larger. To prevent 

Ptotal from growing beyond the baseline as n parallel branches are introduced at a level, we reduce the channel width of each specializer by a factor of 1/√n relative to the baseline block, so that the overall parameter budget remains comparable to the baseline. In our canonical ResNet-50 instantiation, the result-ing widths are 512 for the shared backbone, ≈ 512 √2 ≈ 724 

for each level-1 specializer, and ≈ 724 √2 ≈ 1024 for each level-2 specializer. 

C. Activation-Based Weight Distribution 

Jointly training a router and a set of experts from scratch in MoE-style architectures is known to suffer from a chicken-and-egg dependency, as observed in the original sparsely-gated formulation by Shazeer et al. [16]. In our setting the same dependency arises between the router and the specializers: the router cannot send samples to the appropriate branches unless the specializers are already specialized for distinct input subsets, while the specializers cannot specialize unless the router consistently feeds them their respective subsets. Without an external intervention, soft routing combined with all-leaf training resolves this circularity in the trivial direction in which all branches converge toward similar functions, and branch specialization never emerges. We therefore initialize the router and the specializers jointly ,from a single source of structure, rather than through indepen-dent procedures. We eliminate this mismatch by construction: a single spherical k-means clustering of the projection latents provides both the router weight, as cluster centroids, and the per-branch channel allocation, via cluster-conditional source-layer activations, so the router’s per-sample decision and the specializer’s per-cluster channel inventory are aligned from the outset. 

Phase 0: backbone transfer. The early generic-feature layers of the pretrained baseline are copied verbatim into fBB . Their shapes are designed to match, so the transfer is a direct parameter copy and preserves the baseline’s low-level feature extractor. 

Phase 1: level-1 clustering and router initialization. We forward the training set through fBB and the level-1 projection 

π1, collecting up to N latents {u(i)1 }Ni=1 with N ≤ 50 ,000 . We then run a spherical k-means algorithm with k = 2 [20], [21] on these latents to obtain centroids C1 ∈ R2×D and cluster assignments ci ∈ { 0, 1}. Setting R1.W ← C1 and R1.b ← 0

makes softmax  C1 u1

 a cosine-similarity-based binary router whose decision boundary coincides with the k-means partition. In parallel, we forward the same samples through the baseline up to the level-1 source block and accumulate the pooled per-channel mean activation a(c) conditioned on each cluster c.

Phase 2: shared and branch-specific channel selection. The level-1 specializer width is WL1; we allocate Kshared =

⌊κW L1⌋ channels as shared between the two branches and 

WL1 − Kshared as branch-specific, where κ ∈ [0 , 1] controls the trade-off and is fixed to 0.5 in our experiments. The shared channels are chosen as the top-Kshared indices of 

min  a(0) , a (1) , so that a channel qualifies as shared only when it is strongly activated in both clusters; this prevents channels that are strong in only one cluster from being routed to the shared pool. The branch-specific channels for cluster c

are then chosen from the remaining channels by the contrast score a(c) − a(1 −c), capturing features that are relatively more active for that cluster. For convolutional baselines, the bottleneck’s internal plane indices are additionally selected by L1-norm and shared across the two branches. The resulting index set defines which baseline channels are copied into s(A)1

and s(B)1 . Fig. 2 visualizes the partition for our ResNet-50 instantiation: each baseline channel is plotted as one point in the (a(0) , a (1) ) plane, with channels near the diagonal becoming shared and the off-diagonal channels becoming branch-specific. The decomposition mirrors the shared-expert pattern of DeepSeekMoE [17], where always-active shared experts free routed experts to specialize sharply; in our setting, shared channels carry universally useful features while branch-specific channels capture cluster-distinctive ones. 

Phases 3–4: level-2 recursion. Using the initialized level-1 components, we forward each sample only through the branch chosen by R1, collecting per-branch latents uA and 

uB at the level-2 projection. Spherical k-means with k = 2 is then applied within each branch to obtain centroids CA, C B ,which initialize RL2,A and RL2,B . Cluster-conditional acti-vations of the level-2 source block are aggregated within each branch, and the shared and branch-specific selection of Phase 2 is repeated to produce the four level-2 specializers 

s(A1) 2 , s (A2) 2 , s (B1) 2 , s (B2) 2 .

Phase 5: leaf head transfer. Finally, each leaf head μk

inherits the column subset of the baseline classifier weight that corresponds to its allocated output channels. The classifier bias, which is indexed by output class and does not depend on the input channels, is shared identically across all leaf heads. Each leaf head thus starts from a partial copy of the baseline classifier restricted to the channel subset that its specializer produces, and the four leaves differ only in the columns of the inherited weight matrix. Geometrically, the procedure performs activation-based hi-erarchical partitioning of the input distribution: each level partitions the remaining feature space by spherical k-means and inherits the baseline channels that are most active on the resulting clusters. The router projection πℓ is kept close to TANAKA et al. : SIGMA-BRANCH: HIERARCHICAL SINGLE-PATH NETWORK RECONSTRUCTION 50.00 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 

a(0) (mean activation, cluster 0)             

> 0.00
> 0.02
> 0.04
> 0.06
> 0.08
> 0.10
> 0.12
> 0.14
> a(1)  (mean activation, cluster 1)
> shared
> branch-A specific
> branch-B specific
> Fig. 2. Shared and branch-specific channel selection on the level-1 source block of a pretrained ResNet-50 over ImageNet-1k. Each point is one of the
> 1024 output channels of the source layer, plotted by its cluster-conditional mean activations a(0) and a(1) . Channels with large min( a(0) , a (1) ), i.e. those strongly activated in both clusters, are selected as shared; the remaining channels with large |a(0) −a(1) |are selected as branch-specific. The axes are clipped at 0.15 so that the bulk of the channel distribution is visible; a small number of high-activation outliers in the shared set fall outside the panel.

linear during initialization by omitting the inner non-linearity, so that the spherical structure of the k-means cluster centroids in projection space carries over directly to the router weights. 

D. Soft-Routing Fine-Tuning 

After activation-based initialization, the backbone, routers, specializers, and leaf heads are all initialized from the pre-trained baseline; only the router projections πℓ have no base-line counterpart and remain randomly initialized. The router projections are nevertheless used during the spherical k-means step of Phases 1 and 3, and the resulting cluster structure is preserved because spherical k-means depends only on angular similarity, which random linear projections approximately preserve in expectation [22]. After initialization, all parameters are jointly fine-tuned with soft routing, in which every leaf is evaluated for every input, and the losses are combined through the routing probabilities. We use a specialist classification loss in which the leaf-wise cross-entropy losses are weighted by the routing probabilities 

pleaf :

Lcls = Ex

" KX

> k=1

pleaf (k | x) CE  yk(x), y #

. (5) This formulation differs from a naive ensemble cross-entropy on the weighted-average logits in that each leaf must itself produce a correct prediction when its routing probability is high, which directly aligns the soft-routing training objective with the hard top-1 inference behavior at test time. 

Algorithm 1 Activation-based weight distribution for Sigma-Branch Net 

Require: Pretrained baseline Mbase ; training set D; shared-channel ratio κ; depth L

Ensure: Initialized ΣB-Net parameters  

> 1:

fBB .θ ← shared-trunk weights of Mbase ▷ Phase 0  

> 2:

for ℓ = 1 to L do  

> 3:

Collect latents {u(i) 

> ℓ

= πℓ(z(i) 

> ℓ

)}Ni=1 over D 

> 4:

(Cℓ, c i) ← SPHERICAL KM EANS ({u(i) 

> ℓ

}, k = 2) ▷

Phase ℓ-a  

> 5:

Rℓ.W ← Cℓ, R ℓ.b ← 0 

> 6:

for branch b ∈ { 0, 1} at level ℓ do  

> 7:

a(c) ← cluster-conditional pooled activation of baseline level-ℓ source layer  

> 8:

shared ← arg top ⌊κW ℓ⌋

 min( a(0) , a (1) ) 

> 9:

specific b ← arg top Wℓ−⌊ κW ℓ⌋

 a(b) − a(1 −b) 

> 10:

out idx b ← shared ∪ specific b 

> 11:

Copy baseline level-ℓ block channels indexed by 

out idx b into s(b) 

> ℓ

▷ Phase ℓ-b  

> 12:

end for  

> 13:

end for  

> 14:

for each leaf k do  

> 15:

μk.fc ← M base .fc[: , out idx k] ▷ Phase L+1  

> 16:

end for 

To further align the router decision with the per-leaf predic-tion quality, we augment the objective with a responsibility-matching loss adapted from the gating literature. The respon-sibility rk of leaf k is defined by the soft minimum of the leaf-wise cross-entropy losses, 

rk(x) = exp  −CE( yk(x), y )/τ r

P 

> j

exp  −CE( yj (x), y )/τ r

 , (6) and is treated as a stop-gradient target. The routing probabili-ties are trained to match this responsibility distribution through a cross-entropy penalty, 

Lresp = − Ex

"X

> k

rk(x) log pleaf (k | x)

#

. (7) The total training objective is 

L = Lcls + λresp Lresp , (8) where λresp is a fixed scalar coefficient and τr is a fixed scalar that controls the sharpness of the responsibility distribution. We set them to λresp = 0 .3 and τr = 0 .3.

E. Hard Top-1 Inference 

At inference, ΣB-Net evaluates only a single root-to-leaf path. Starting from the backbone feature z = fBB (x), the level-1 router selects a branch by hard argmax, 

b∗ 

> ℓ

= arg max  

> j∈{ 0,1}

p(ℓ) 

> j

, (9) and only the chosen specializer s(b∗  

> ℓ)
> ℓ

is executed. The selection is sequential rather than joint: the level-2 projection input is the output of the chosen level-1 specializer, so the level-2 routing TANAKA et al. : SIGMA-BRANCH: HIERARCHICAL SINGLE-PATH NETWORK RECONSTRUCTION 6

distribution exists only along the branch chosen at level 1. Once the leaf k∗ corresponding to the sequence of argmax decisions is determined, the prediction is taken directly from the selected leaf head, ˆy = yk∗ .The active-parameter count of one inference is therefore 

Pactive from (4), comprising the backbone, one specializer per level, and one leaf head. In the 4-leaf configuration, three of the four leaf heads, three of the four level-2 specializers, and one of the two level-1 specializers are entirely skipped. 

F. Modality-Agnostic Applicability 

The only assumption the framework places on the baseline is that fBB produces a pooled global feature on which the router projection πℓ can operate; the spherical k-means clustering, the cluster-conditional channel selection, and the per-leaf path selection are otherwise modality-independent. The framework therefore extends to any such backbone, including convolu-tional networks (global average pooling) and PointNet++-style networks (set-abstraction descriptors). Per-modality choices of source block, specializer width, and training schedule are reported in Section IV. IV. E XPERIMENTAL SETUP 

A. Hardware and Software Environment 

All models are trained with NVIDIA A100 GPUs. The implementation uses PyTorch with the timm training utilities. 

B. Models and Datasets 

We instantiate ΣB-Method on three backbone–dataset combinations, covering image classification (ResNet-50 on CIFAR-100, ResNet-50 on ImageNet-1K) and point-cloud classification (PointNet++ on ModelNet40). 

1) CIFAR-100 with ResNet-50: CIFAR-100 [23] contains 50,000 training and 10,000 test images at 32 ×32 resolution across 100 classes. The baseline is a timm ResNet-50 [1] with the CIFAR-style modification of a 3×3 stride-1 stem and no max-pool. The ΣB-Net counterpart uses the stem and layers 1– 2 as the shared trunk (backbone width 512), six bottleneck blocks per level-1 specializer at width 724 ( ≈ 512 √2), and three blocks per level-2 specializer at width 1024 ( ≈ 724 √2). All four leaves share the same width and depth, so Pactive is path-invariant. The projection dimension used by the spherical 

k-means router is 128. 

2) ImageNet-1K with ResNet-50: ImageNet-1K [24] con-sists of 1,281,167 training and 50,000 validation images across 1,000 classes. The baseline is a timm ResNet-50 with the standard 7×7 stride-2 stem followed by max-pool. The ΣB-Net uses the same specializer widths as the CIFAR-100 instantiation; only the stem is replaced with the ImageNet variant. 

3) ModelNet40 with PointNet++: ModelNet40 [25] con-sists of 9,843 training and 2,468 test point clouds across 40 classes, uniformly sampled to 1,024 points per shape. The baseline is the PointNet++ [7] single-scale-grouping variant. The ΣB-Net uses SA1 and SA2 as the shared trunk (global feature dimension 256), an SA3-equivalent ball-query MLP at width 512 for each level-1 specializer, an FC1-equivalent MLP at width 256 for each level-2 specializer, and an FC2-equivalent head per leaf. 

C. Training Protocol 

Table II summarizes the training recipe for each combi-nation. For image classification, we follow the timm-style training protocol: SGD with Nesterov momentum, an initial learning rate of 0.1, cosine annealing [26] with five warm-up epochs, and label smoothing of 0.1. CIFAR-100 runs for 200 epochs with weight decay 10 −4; ImageNet-1K runs for 90 epochs. For point-cloud classification we follow the PointNet++ recipe: Adam [27] with initial learning rate 10 −3,weight decay 10 −4, and step decay ( γ = 0 .7 every 20 epochs) for 200 epochs. 

D. Baselines for Comparison 

We organize the comparison around three baseline families, each chosen to isolate a specific axis of the trade-off space rather than to claim head-to-head dominance on every axis. 

1) Original models (D-1): The first comparison is against the unconverted backbones themselves: ResNet-50 [1] on CIFAR-100 and ImageNet-1K, and PointNet++ [7] on Mod-elNet40. Each baseline is retrained in our environment under the protocol of Table II, and we report accuracy, FLOPs, and active parameters before and after ΣB-Method is applied. This establishes whether the reconstructed network preserves the predictive quality of its source model. 

2) Static filter pruning (D-2): We compare against two representative static filter-pruning methods on ResNet-50: FPGM [13] and HRank [14], both of which report ImageNet-1K ResNet-50 numbers at multiple compression ratios from their own dense baseline. This baseline characterizes the static FLOPs-reduction frontier against which the dynamic-path approach is positioned. 

3) Sample-level dynamic computation (D-3): We compare against SkipNet [12], which augments a ResNet with recurrent gating modules that decide, per input, whether each residual block is executed or skipped, and against the narrow variant of DeepMoE [11], which gates individual output channels of each convolution via a shallow embedding network. Both methods share with ΣB-Net the property of input-conditional path selection, but differ in granularity: SkipNet operates at the block level with stochastic binary gates, DeepMoE at the channel level with continuous ReLU gates, and ΣB-Net at the leaf level with hard top-1 routing through a hierarchical tree. Two further entries appearing in the positioning table (Table I)—DecisioNet [19] and the analytical FFN-to-MoE conversion of [18]—are retained as related work, but ex-cluded from numerical comparison. DecisioNet builds a hi-erarchical binary tree of specialized paths, but trains the network from scratch using a supervised label-derived class hierarchy; the ΣB-Method, by contrast, fine-tunes a pretrained dense model using an unsupervised activation-based partition (Section III-C). A head-to-head comparison would, therefore, conflate the training regime with the architectural design. The TANAKA et al. : SIGMA-BRANCH: HIERARCHICAL SINGLE-PATH NETWORK RECONSTRUCTION 7                          

> TABLE II TRAINING HYPER -PARAMETERS PER BACKBONE –DATASET COMBINATION .
> Setting CIFAR-100 / ResNet-50 ImageNet-1K / ResNet-50 ModelNet40 / PointNet++ Optimizer SGD (Nesterov) SGD (Nesterov) Adam Initial learning rate 0.10.110 −3
> Weight decay 10 −410 −410 −4
> LR schedule cosine, 5 ep. warm-up cosine, 5 ep. warm-up step ( γ= 0 .7per 20 ep.) Batch size 256 256 32 Epochs 200 90 200 Label smoothing 0.10.10.0

analytical FFN-to-MoE method targets the feed-forward sub-layers of a pretrained Transformer with no retraining, and does not apply to convolutional or point-cloud backbones, which are within the scope of our experiments. Both methods remain in the related-work positioning (Section II) to clarify where ΣB-Method sits in the design space. 

E. Evaluation Metrics 

For each method and combination, we report the following metrics. (i) Top-1 and Top-5 accuracy on the held-out test set, or the validation set for ImageNet-1K. (ii) Active parameters Pactive as defined in Equation (4), counted along the hard-routed path. The active-parameter metric is intended as an analytical proxy for per-inference off-chip weight-transfer volume under memory-bound deploy-ment, rather than as a direct measurement of wall-clock latency. (iii) FLOPs , measured with fvcore on a forward pass under hard top-1 routing with batch size one, so that the data-dependent routing short-circuits to a single executed path. (iv) Routing distribution , a qualitative analysis of which leaves are selected for each class. The per-class leaf usage is visualized as a heatmap and serves as an interpretability check on the unsupervised partition rather than a quantitative score. Across (i)–(iii), the three baseline families differ in how they occupy the FLOPs– Pactive plane: static pruning com-presses both axes by similar fractions but does so perma-nently, sample-level dynamic computation reduces both axes through input- dependent soft gating, and ΣB-Method reduces both axes through input-dependent hard top-1 routing while retaining the full dense parameter set. Section V reports the corresponding numerical comparison. V. R ESULTS 

A. Accuracy and Compute Trade-off across Tasks 

Table III summarizes the main results across the three backbone–dataset combinations. The primary observation is that ΣB-Net reduces the active-parameter footprint Pactive by 58–60 % relative to its dense baseline while remaining either within 0.1 pp of the baseline accuracy (CIFAR-100), within 1.7 pp (ImageNet-1K), or above it (ModelNet40). FLOPs at hard top-1 inference are reduced by 10–32 %, with the variation reflecting how much of the network is shared across all inputs in each backbone. On CIFAR-100 with ResNet-50, the ΣB-Net obtained from a 60-epoch fine-tune of the 200-epoch dense baseline retains Top-1 within 0.07 pp (76.99 % → 76.92 %) while reducing 

Pactive by 60.3 %. Top-5 also improves by 0.65 pp. Hard-routed FLOPs drop by 32.0 %. On ImageNet-1K with ResNet-50, the ΣB-Net is fine-tuned for 100 epochs from a 90-epoch dense baseline. Top-1 drops by 1.72 pp (76.54 % → 74.82 %) while Pactive falls by 59.5 % and FLOPs by 31.1 %. On ModelNet40 with PointNet++, the ΣB-Net improves Top-1 by 1.10 pp (90.15 % → 91.25 %) while reducing Pactive 

by 58.3 %. FLOPs reduction is modest (10.3 %) because the shared trunk SA1 + SA2, which is executed for every input, dominates the per-sample compute on point clouds. 

B. Comparison with Static Structured Pruning 

Table IV compares ΣB-Net on ImageNet-1K ResNet-50 against two representative static filter-pruning methods that report results on their own dense baseline: FPGM [13] at two pruning rates, and HRank [14] at three sparsity levels. We use the numbers reported in the original publications. At a comparable Top-1 (74.8–75.0 %), ΣB-Net’s Pactive 

reduction is 14–23 pp larger than that of the static methods: 59.5 % versus 43.0 % for FPGM-40 (Top-1 74.83 %) and 36.7 % for HRank-44 (Top-1 74.98 %). On the FLOPs axis the trade-off is reversed: at the same Top-1 band, the static meth-ods remove 42.2–53.5 % of FLOPs while ΣB-Net removes 31.1 %. The implications of this asymmetric position on the active-parameter–FLOPs plane are discussed in Section VI-A. 

C. Comparison with Sample-Level Dynamic Computation 

We compare ΣB-Net against two representative sample-level dynamic-inference methods on ImageNet-1K ResNet-50: SkipNet [12], which selects per-input residual blocks to skip, and the narrow variant of DeepMoE [11], which gates output channels per input via a shallow embedding network. Table V reports the comparison; active-parameter and FLOPs reductions are computed per input from gate masks on the ImageNet-1K validation set and averaged. 

ΣB-Net reports both the highest Top-1 and the largest active-parameter reduction in Table V. The structural dis-tinction is that each input selects exactly one root-to-leaf path of ΣB-Net, fixing the active-parameter mass by archi-tecture rather than by trained gate values; SkipNet’s per-block Bernoulli gating and DeepMoE’s continuous channel TANAKA et al. : SIGMA-BRANCH: HIERARCHICAL SINGLE-PATH NETWORK RECONSTRUCTION 8

TABLE III MAIN RESULTS ACROSS THE THREE BACKBONE –DATASET COMBINATIONS . A CTIVE PARAM . ↓ IS THE REDUCTION IN Pactive RELATIVE TO THE DENSE BASELINE .Dataset Backbone Method Epochs Top-1 (%) Top-5 (%) Ptotal (M) Pactive (M) Active param. ↓ (%) FLOPs (G) CIFAR-100 ResNet-50 Baseline 200 76.99 94.65 23.71 23.71 — 1.305 CIFAR-100 ResNet-50 ΣB-Net 60 (FT) 76.92 95.30 25.55 9.41 60.3 0.888 ImageNet-1K ResNet-50 Baseline 90 76.54 — 25.56 25.56 — 4.112 ImageNet-1K ResNet-50 ΣB-Net 100 (FT) 74.82 91.58 29.25 10.34 59.5 2.834 ModelNet40 PointNet++ Baseline 200 90.15 99.19 1.47 1.47 — 1.148 ModelNet40 PointNet++ ΣB-Net 200 (FT) 91.25 99.11 1.46 0.61 58.3 1.030 TABLE IV COMPARISON WITH STATIC STRUCTURED PRUNING ON IMAGE NET -1K R ES NET -50. § MARKS ANALYTIC VALUES DERIVED FROM THE PUBLISHED FPGM 

> PRUNING RULE

.Method Top-1 (%) Top-5 (%) Active param. (M) FLOPs (G) FLOPs ↓ (%) Active param. ↓ (%) ResNet-50 baseline [14] 76.15 92.87 25.50 4.09 — —ResNet-50 baseline (ours) 76.54 — 25.56 4.11 — —FPGM-30 [13] 75.59 92.63 16.96 § 2.36 § 42.2 33.6 §

FPGM-40 [13] 74.83 92.32 14.57 § 1.90 § 53.5 43.0 §

HRank-44% [14] 74.98 92.33 16.15 2.30 43.8 36.7 HRank-62% [14] 71.98 91.01 13.77 1.55 62.1 46.0 HRank-76% [14] 69.10 89.58 8.27 0.98 76.0 67.6 

ΣB-Net (ours) 74.82 91.58 10.34 2.834 31.1 59.5 

TABLE V COMPARISON WITH SAMPLE -LEVEL DYNAMIC COMPUTATION ON 

IMAGE NET -1K R ES NET -50. Method Top-1 (%) Active param. ↓ (%) FLOPs ↓ (%) 

ΣB-Net (ours) 74.82 59.5 31.1 SkipNet+SP [12] 70.03 6.7 6.7 Narrow-DeepMoE-A [11] 66.27 43.6 59.6 

gating both produce sample-dependent active footprints, which complicate deterministic resource provisioning on edge accel-erators. 

D. Routing Behavior 

We inspect the learned routing on the CIFAR-100 ΣB-Net. The validation-set leaf utilization under hard top-1 routing is (A1, A 2, B 1, B 2) = (20 .0, 23 .6, 13 .9, 42 .6) % , giving abalance score of 0.935 on the [0 , 1] scale where one denotes the uniform distribution and zero denotes complete collapse to a single leaf. The routers are well separated, and no leaf is starved. Fig. 3 shows the per-class leaf-assignment distribution: for each of the 100 CIFAR-100 classes, we report the fraction of validation samples routed to each leaf under hard top-1. The heatmap exhibits a clear block structure: distinct subsets of classes concentrate on different leaves, and most classes route into a single dominant leaf rather than distributing uniformly. This is the qualitative signature predicted by the activation-based initialization in Section III-C: by construction, the leaves are seeded from cluster-conditional channel subsets, and the responsibility loss in Section III-D preserves this clustering through fine-tuning. 

E. Ablations 

We ablate the two non-trivial design choices in Sec-tion III: the activation-based channel partition used by the pretrained-baseline initialization (Section III-C) and the routing-responsibility loss (Section III-D). All ablations are run on ImageNet-1K with ResNet-50 under the same fine-tuning recipe as the main result. The default configuration matches the main-results row. The two ablations expose complementary roles of the activation-based channel partition and the routing-responsibility loss. Randomizing the channel partition while keeping every other component of the initialization pipeline intact makes the two L1 specializers functionally similar: their output channels are now drawn uniformly from the same pool, so neither specializer develops a cluster-conditional representation that the L1 router can exploit. The L1 router consequently collapses to a single branch and the network degenerates into a two-leaf tree, with a Top-1 drop of 0.87 pp on ImageNet-1K. Setting λresp = 0 removes the explicit incentive for the L1 router to use both branches: A1 and A2

each receive 0 % of validation samples, and the accuracy drops by 1.48 pp. VI. D ISCUSSION 

A. Position on the Active-Parameter / Accuracy Trade-off 

ΣB-Net occupies a distinct operating point on the multi-axis efficiency Pareto front, dominating the active-parameter axis while offering only moderate FLOPs reduction (Sections V-A– V-C). The active-parameter advantage is structural rather than incidental: static structured pruning removes filters perma-nently to compress both axes, and sample-level dynamic com-putation gates entire blocks to skip compute, whereas ΣB-Net reduces the active-parameter footprint via per-inference path selection over a hierarchical binary tree, with the dense total TANAKA et al. : SIGMA-BRANCH: HIERARCHICAL SINGLE-PATH NETWORK RECONSTRUCTION 9                           

> TABLE VI ABLATIONS ON IMAGE NET -1K R ES NET -50. B ALANCE IS THE ENTROPY -NORMALIZED LEAF UTILIZATION (ONE =UNIFORM ). Variant Init mode λresp Top-1 (%) Balance Leaf usage % Default activation-based 0.3 74.82 0.965 16.6 / 30.8 / 17.6 / 35.1 Random partition random partition 0.3 73.95 ( −0.87) 0.504 0.2 / 0.0 / 52.9 / 46.9 w/o resp. loss activation-based 0.0 73.34 ( −1.48) 0.491 0.0 / 0.0 / 57.4 / 42.6
> Fig. 3. Per-class leaf-assignment heatmap for Sigma-Branch Net on CIFAR-100 (seed-42 reproduction of the main-table ΣB-Net configuration). Rows are the 100 CIFAR-100 classes (re-ordered by dominant leaf); columns are the four leaves (A1, A 2, B 1, B 2); cell intensity is the fraction of validation samples of that class routed to that leaf under hard top-1 routing.

parameter count preserved. DecisioNet [19] is the structurally closest prior work, but its supervised label-tree construction is restricted to convolutional backbones. 

B. Implications for Memory-Bound Deployment 

The distinction between FLOPs and active parameters is central in the memory-bound regime. FLOPs measure arith-metic work, whereas Pactive measures the amount of model state that must be resident on-chip or transferred from off-chip memory for a single inference. When the dense model does not fit in on-chip memory and inference is performed at batch size one, weights cannot be amortized across alarge batch, and off-chip weight traffic can dominate latency even when arithmetic units are underutilized. Thus, reducing 

Pactive targets a different bottleneck from conventional FLOPs reduction. The active-parameter advantage translates analytically into reduced per-inference DRAM read traffic on memory-constrained accelerators, where on-chip memory cannot hold the dense network, and per-inference latency is governed by off-chip weight transfer under the batch-size-one regime typical of edge inference [8]. Because only the backbone, routers, and a single leaf execute, the transferred volume scales with Pactive ; an active-parameter reduction of approx-imately 60 % therefore reduces analytical off-chip transfer by approximately 60 %, corresponding under FP32 storage to roughly 41 MB per inference for the ResNet-50 ΣB-Net versus 102 MB for the dense baseline. Unlike static structured pruning, which achieves a comparable reduction only at the cost of permanently lowered capacity [15], ΣB-Net decouples per-inference memory traffic from the total parameter count. Realizing this analytical reduction as wall-clock latency improvement is non-trivial: naive on-demand fetching after the router’s argmax decision breaks the prefetch–compute overlap that hides memory latency, and selective weight transfer re-quires runtime support together with a branch-aligned memory layout that preserves burst-transfer efficiency. These imple-mentation aspects are deferred to future work (Section VI-D). The present work isolates the algorithmic contribution of active-parameter reduction from hardware-specific runtime co-design, which we intentionally leave outside the scope of this paper. 

C. Limitations 

Three limitations point to directions of future work. First, a non-trivial accuracy gap remains on ImageNet-1K (Sec-tion V-A); a plausible cause is that the four-leaf structure does not fully absorb the intra-class variability of 1000 classes. Second, the modality scope does not yet cover Vision Transformer [2] architectures, which a framework-level gen-erality claim would ultimately require. Third, the reductions reported here are analytical; empirical wall-clock validation on memory-constrained accelerators is left for future work. 

D. Future Work 

Three directions follow from the limitations above. First, extension to Vision Transformer backbones via a hybrid TANAKA et al. : SIGMA-BRANCH: HIERARCHICAL SINGLE-PATH NETWORK RECONSTRUCTION 10 

approach—dense self-attention with hierarchically restructured feed-forward sub-layers—would broaden modality coverage; recent analytical FFN-to-MoE conversion [18] offers a flat, training-free counterpart against which a hierarchical fine-tuned variant could be compared. Second, the fixed (2 , 4) tree configuration could be replaced with a data-driven choice via activation-clustering criteria (e.g. silhouette or gap statistics) or small-scale architecture search, better fitting larger label spaces and asymmetric input distributions. Third, hardware-level realization on memory-constrained accelerators is re-quired to convert the analytical traffic reduction into wall-clock latency improvement, involving benchmarking on accelerators with explicit on-chip / off-chip hierarchies, runtime support for selective weight prefetching aligned with router decisions, and quantization-aware leaf placement to maximize on-chip residency. VII. C ONCLUSION 

We introduced ΣB-Method, a framework that converts a pretrained dense network into a hierarchical binary tree exe-cuted at inference as a single hard top-1 path. Across CIFAR-100 / ResNet-50, ImageNet-1K / ResNet-50, and Model-Net40 / PointNet++, ΣB-Net reduces the per-inference active-parameter footprint by 58–60 % while preserving classification accuracy within 1.72 pp of the dense baseline. By retaining the full dense parameter set, ΣB-Method decouples per-inference memory traffic from the total parameter count, occupying a distinct operating point relative to static pruning and sample-level dynamic computation, and the cross-modal evaluation substantiates a framework-level claim. REFERENCES [1] K. He, X. Zhang, S. Ren, and J. Sun, “Deep residual learning for image recognition,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR) , 2016, pp. 770–778. [2] A. Dosovitskiy, L. Beyer, A. Kolesnikov, D. Weissenborn, X. Zhai, T. Unterthiner, M. Dehghani, M. Minderer, G. Heigold, S. Gelly, J. Uszkoreit, and N. Houlsby, “An image is worth 16x16 words: Transformers for image recognition at scale,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Learn. Represent. (ICLR) , 2021. [3] J. Chen and X. Ran, “Deep Learning With Edge Computing: A Review,” 

Proceedings of the IEEE , vol. 107, no. 8, pp. 1655–1674, Aug. 2019. [4] A. G. Howard, M. Zhu, B. Chen, D. Kalenichenko, W. Wang, T. Weyand, M. Andreetto, and H. Adam, “MobileNets: Efficient convo-lutional neural networks for mobile vision applications,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1704.04861 , 2017. [5] Z. Liu, H. Mao, C.-Y. Wu, C. Feichtenhofer, T. Darrell, and S. Xie, “A ConvNet for the 2020s,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR) , 2022, pp. 11 976–11 986. [6] C. R. Qi, H. Su, K. Mo, and L. J. Guibas, “PointNet: Deep learning on point sets for 3D classification and segmentation,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR) , 2017, pp. 652–660. [7] C. R. Qi, L. Yi, H. Su, and L. J. Guibas, “PointNet++: Deep hierarchical feature learning on point sets in a metric space,” in Proc. Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst. (NeurIPS) , 2017, pp. 5099–5108. [8] R. Pope, S. Douglas, A. Chowdhery, J. Devlin, J. Bradbury, J. Heek, K. Xiao, S. Agrawal, and J. Dean, “Efficiently scaling transformer inference,” in Proc. Mach. Learn. Syst. (MLSys) , 2023. [9] S. Han, H. Mao, and W. J. Dally, “Deep compression: Compressing deep neural networks with pruning, trained quantization and huffman coding,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Learn. Represent. (ICLR) , 2016. [10] G. Hinton, O. Vinyals, and J. Dean, “Distilling the knowledge in a neural network,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1503.02531 , 2015. [11] X. Wang, F. Yu, L. Dunlap, Y.-A. Ma, R. Wang, A. Mirhoseini, T. Darrell, and J. E. Gonzalez, “Deep mixture of experts via shallow embedding,” in Proc. Conf. Uncertainty Artif. Intell. (UAI) , 2019. [12] X. Wang, F. Yu, Z.-Y. Dou, T. Darrell, and J. E. Gonzalez, “SkipNet: Learning Dynamic Routing in Convolutional Networks,” Jul. 2018. [13] Y. He, P. Liu, Z. Wang, Z. Hu, and Y. Yang, “Filter Pruning via Geo-metric Median for Deep Convolutional Neural Networks Acceleration,” Jul. 2019. [14] M. Lin, R. Ji, Y. Wang, Y. Zhang, B. Zhang, Y. Tian, and L. Shao, “HRank: Filter Pruning using High-Rank Feature Map,” Mar. 2020. [15] S. Hooker, A. Courville, G. Clark, Y. Dauphin, and A. Frome, “What do compressed deep neural networks forget?” in arXiv Preprint arXiv:1911.05248 , 2019. [16] N. Shazeer, A. Mirhoseini, K. Maziarz, A. Davis, Q. V. Le, G. Hinton, and J. Dean, “Outrageously large neural networks: The sparsely-gated mixture-of-experts layer,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Learn. Represent. (ICLR) ,2017. [17] D. Dai, C. Deng, C. Zhao, R. Xu, H. Gao, D. Chen, J. Li, W. Zeng, X. Yu, Y. Wu, Z. Xie, Y. Li, P. Huang, F. Luo, C. Ruan, Z. Sui, and W. Liang, “DeepSeekMoE: Towards Ultimate Expert Specialization in Mixture-of-Experts Language Models,” in Proceedings of the 62nd An-nual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , L.-W. Ku, A. Martins, and V. Srikumar, Eds. Bangkok, Thailand: Association for Computational Linguistics, Aug. 2024, pp. 1280–1297. [18] Z. Pei, H.-L. Zhen, L. Zou, X. Yu, W. Liu, S. J. Pan, M. Yuan, and B. Yu, “Analytical FFN-to-MoE Restructuring via Activation Pattern Analysis,” Apr. 2026. [19] N. Gottlieb and M. Werman, “DecisioNet: A Binary-Tree Structured Neural Network,” in Computer Vision – ACCV 2022 , L. Wang, J. Gall, T.-J. Chin, I. Sato, and R. Chellappa, Eds. Cham: Springer Nature Switzerland, 2023, vol. 13841, pp. 556–570. [20] I. S. Dhillon and D. S. Modha, “Concept Decompositions for Large Sparse Text Data Using Clustering,” Machine Learning , vol. 42, no. 1, pp. 143–175, Jan. 2001. [21] A. Banerjee, I. S. Dhillon, J. Ghosh, and S. Sra, “Clustering on the Unit Hypersphere using von Mises-Fisher Distributions,” Journal of Machine Learning Research , vol. 6, no. 46, pp. 1345–1382, 2005. [22] W. B. Johnson and J. Lindenstrauss, “Extensions of Lipschitz mappings into a Hilbert space,” in Contemporary Mathematics , R. Beals, A. Beck, A. Bellow, and A. Hajian, Eds. Providence, Rhode Island: American Mathematical Society, 1984, vol. 26, pp. 189–206. [23] A. Krizhevsky, “Learning Multiple Layers of Features from Tiny Im-ages,” Master’s thesis, University of Tront , 2009. [24] J. Deng, W. Dong, R. Socher, L.-J. Li, K. Li, and L. Fei-Fei, “ImageNet: A large-scale hierarchical image database,” in 2009 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , Jun. 2009, pp. 248–255. [25] Z. Wu, S. Song, A. Khosla, F. Yu, L. Zhang, X. Tang, and J. Xiao, “3D ShapeNets: A deep representation for volumetric shapes,” in 2015 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , Jun. 2015, pp. 1912–1920. [26] I. Loshchilov and F. Hutter, “SGDR: Stochastic Gradient Descent with Warm Restarts,” May 2017. [27] D. P. Kingma and J. Ba, “Adam: A Method for Stochastic Optimization,” Jan. 2017. 

KOHGA TANAKA received the B.E. degree from Keio University, Japan, in 2024, where he is cur-rently pursuing the master’s degree. His research in-terests include lightweight dynamic-inference frame-works, active-parameter reduction, and edge AI. TANAKA et al. : SIGMA-BRANCH: HIERARCHICAL SINGLE-PATH NETWORK RECONSTRUCTION 11 

HIROAKI NISHI He has been a Researcher with the Real World Computing Partnership, since 1999, and with the Central Research Laboratory, Hitachi Ltd., since 2002. He has been a Professor with Keio University, since 2014. He is the Chair of IEEE P21451-1-6 and IEEE P2992; and a member of IEEE 1451 Families, IEEE P2668, and IEEE P2805. He was also a member of the ITU-T Focus Group on Smart Sustainable Cities WG2. He is a member of several committees established by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications. The main theme of his current research is a total network system that includes the development of hardware and software architecture.